  THE

  LADIES' BOOK OF ETIQUETTE,

  AND

  MANUAL OF POLITENESS.

  A COMPLETE HAND BOOK FOR THE USE OF THE LADY IN POLITE SOCIETY.

  CONTAINING

  FULL DIRECTIONS FOR CORRECT MANNERS, DRESS, DEPORTMENT, AND CONVERSATION;
  RULES FOR THE DUTIES OF BOTH HOSTESS AND GUEST
  IN MORNING RECEPTIONS, DINNER COMPANIES, VISITING, EVENING
  PARTIES AND BALLS; A COMPLETE GUIDE FOR LETTER
  WRITING AND CARDS OF COMPLIMENT; HINTS
  ON MANAGING SERVANTS, ON THE PRESERVATION
  OF HEALTH, AND ON ACCOMPLISHMENTS.

  AND ALSO

  USEFUL RECEIPTS FOR THE COMPLEXION, HAIR, AND WITH HINTS
  AND DIRECTIONS FOR THE CARE OF THE WARDROBE.

  THE "LADIES' HAND BOOK OF FANCY AND ORNAMENTAL WORK."


In preparing a book of etiquette for ladies, I would lay down as the
first rule, "Do unto others as you would others should do to you." You
can never be rude if you bear the rule always in mind, for what lady
likes to be treated rudely? True Christian politeness will always be the
result of an unselfish regard for the feelings of others, and though you
may err in the ceremonious points of etiquette, you will never be
impolite.

Politeness, founded upon such a rule, becomes the expression, in
graceful manner, of social virtues. The spirit of politeness consists in
a certain attention to forms and ceremonies, which are meant both to
please others and ourselves, and to make others pleased with us; a still
clearer definition may be given by saying that politeness is goodness of
heart put into daily practice; there can be no _true_ politeness without
kindness, purity, singleness of heart, and sensibility.

Many believe that politeness is but a mask worn in the world to conceal
bad passions and impulses, and to make a show of possessing virtues not
really existing in the heart; thus, that politeness is merely hypocrisy
and dissimulation. Do not believe this; be certain that those who
profess such a doctrine are practising themselves the deceit they
condemn so much. Such people scout politeness, because, to be truly a
lady, one must carry the principles into every circumstance of life,
into the family circle, the most intimate friendship, and never forget
to extend the gentle courtesies of life to every one. This they find too
much trouble, and so deride the idea of being polite and call it
deceitfulness.

True politeness is the language of a good heart, and those possessing
that heart will never, under any circumstances, be rude. They may not
enter a crowded saloon gracefully; they may be entirely ignorant of the
_forms_ of good society; they may be awkward at table, ungrammatical in
speech; but they will never be heard speaking so as to wound the
feelings of another; they will never be seen making others uncomfortable
by seeking solely for their own _personal_ convenience; they will always
endeavor to set every one around them at ease; they will be
self-sacrificing, friendly, unselfish; truly in word and deed, _polite_.
Give to such a woman the knowledge of the forms and customs of society,
teach her how best to show the gentle courtesies of life, and you have a
_lady_, created by God, only indebted for the _outward_ polish to the
world.

It is true that society demands this same unselfishness and courtesy,
but when there is no heart in the work, the time is frittered away on
the mere ceremonies, forms of etiquette, and customs of society, and
this politeness seeks only its own ends; to be known as courteous,
spoken of as lady-like, and not beloved as unselfish and womanly.

Etiquette exists in some form in all countries, has existed and will
exist in all ages. From the rudest savage who dares not approach his
ignorant, barbarous ruler without certain forms and ceremonies, to the
most polished courts in Europe, or the home circles of America,
etiquette reigns.

True politeness will be found, its basis in the human heart, the same in
all these varied scenes and situations, but the outward forms of
etiquette will vary everywhere. Even in the same scene, time will alter
every form, and render the exquisite polish of last year, obsolete
rudeness next year.

Politeness, being based upon real kindness of heart, cannot exist where
there is selfishness or brutality to warp its growth. It is founded
upon love of the neighbor, and a desire to be beloved, and to show love.
Thus, where such pure, noble feelings do not exist, the mere forms of
politeness become hypocrisy and deceit.

Rudeness will repel, where courtesy would attract friends.

Never by word or action notice the defects of another; be charitable,
for all need charity. Remember who said, "Let him that is without fault
cast the first stone." Remember that the laws of politeness require the
consideration of the feelings of others; the endeavor to make every one
feel at ease; and frank courtesy towards all. Never meet rudeness in
others with rudeness upon your own part; even the most brutal and
impolite will be more shamed by being met with courtesy and kindness,
than by any attempt to annoy them by insolence on your part.

Politeness forbids any display of resentment. The polished surface
throws back the arrow.

Remember that a favor becomes doubly valuable if granted with courtesy,
and that the pain of a refusal may be softened if the manner expresses
polite regret.

Kindness, even to the most humble, will never lose anything by being
offered in a gentle, courteous manner, and the most common-place action
will admit of grace and ease in its execution.

Let every action, while it is finished in strict accordance with
etiquette, be, at the same time, easy, as if dictated solely by the
heart.

To be truly polite, remember you must be polite at _all_ times, and
under _all_ circumstances.


The art of conversation consists in the exercise of two fine qualities.
You must originate, and you must sympathize; you must possess at the
same time the habit of communicating and of listening attentively. The
union is rare but irresistible. None but an excessively ill-bred person
will allow her attention to wander from the person with whom she is
conversing; and especially she will never, while seeming to be entirely
attentive to her companion, answer a remark or question made to another
person, in another group. Unless the conversation be general among a
party of friends, confine your remarks and attention entirely to the
person with whom you are conversing. Steele says, "I would establish but
one great general rule in conversation, which is this--that people
should not talk to please themselves, but those who hear them. This
would make them consider whether what they speak be worth hearing;
whether there be either wit or sense in what they are about to say; and
whether it be adapted to the time when, the place where, and the person
to whom, it is spoken."

Be careful in conversation to avoid topics which may be supposed to have
any direct reference to events or circumstances which may be painful for
your companion to hear discussed; you may unintentionally start a
subject which annoys or troubles the friend with whom you may be
conversing; in that case, do not stop abruptly, when you perceive that
it causes pain, and, above all, do not make the matter worse by
apologizing; turn to another subject as soon as possible, and pay no
attention to the agitation your unfortunate remark may have excited.
Many persons will, for the sake of appearing witty or smart, wound the
feelings of another deeply; avoid this; it is not only ill-bred, but
cruel.

Remember that having all the talk sustained by one person is not
conversation; do not engross all the attention yourself, by refusing to
allow another person an opportunity to speak, and also avoid the other
extreme of total silence, or answering only in monosyllables.

If your companion relates an incident or tells a story, be very careful
not to interrupt her by questions, even if you do not clearly understand
her; wait until she has finished her relation, and then ask any
questions you may desire. There is nothing more annoying than to be so
interrupted. I have heard a story told to an impertinent listener, which
ran in this way:--

"I saw a fearful sight----"

"When?"

"I was about to tell you; last Monday, on the train----"

"What train?"

"The train from B----. We were near the bridge----"

"What bridge?"

"I will tell you all about it, if you will only let me speak. I was
coming from B----"

"Last Monday, did you say?"

and so on. The story was interrupted at every sentence, and the relator
condemned as a most tedious story-teller, when, had he been permitted to
go forward, he would have made the incident interesting and short.

Never interrupt any one who is speaking. It is very ill-bred. If you see
that a person to whom you wish to speak is being addressed by another
person, never speak until she has heard and replied; until her
conversation with that person is finished. No truly polite lady ever
breaks in upon a conversation or interrupts another speaker.

Never, in speaking to a married lady, enquire for her _husband_, or, if
a gentleman, ask for his _wife_. The elegant way is to call the absent
party by their name; ask Mr. Smith how Mrs. Smith is, or enquire of Mrs.
Jones for Mr. Jones, but never for "your husband" or "your wife." On the
other hand, if you are married, never speak of your husband as your
"lord," "husband," or "good man," avoid, also, unless amongst relatives,
calling him by his Christian name. If you wish others to respect him,
show by speaking of him in respectful terms that you do so yourself. If
either your own husband or your friend's is in the army or navy, or can
claim the Dr., Prof., or any other prefix to his name, there is no
impropriety in speaking of him as the colonel, doctor, or whatever his
title may be.

It is a mark of ill-breeding to use French phrases or words, unless you
are sure your companion is a French scholar, and, even then, it is best
to avoid them. Above all, do not use any foreign word or phrase, unless
you have the language perfectly at your command. I heard a lady once use
a Spanish quotation; she had mastered that one sentence alone; but a
Cuban gentleman, delighted to meet an American who could converse with
him in his own tongue, immediately addressed her in Spanish. Embarrassed
and ashamed, she was obliged to confess that her knowledge of the
language was confined to one quotation.

Never anticipate the point or joke of any anecdote told in your
presence. If _you_ have heard the story before, it may be new to others,
and the narrator should always be allowed to finish it in his own words.
To take any sentence from the mouth of another person, before he has
time to utter it, is the height of ill-breeding. Avoid it carefully.

Never use the phrases, "What-d-ye call it," "Thingummy," "What's his
name," or any such substitutes for a proper name or place. If you cannot
recall the names you wish to use, it is better not to tell the story or
incident connected with them. No lady of high breeding will ever use
these substitutes in conversation.

Be careful always to speak in a distinct, clear voice; at the same time
avoid talking too loudly, there is a happy medium between mumbling and
screaming. Strive to attain it.

Overlook the deficiencies of others when conversing with them, as they
may be the results of ignorance, and impossible to correct. Never pain
another person by correcting, before others, a word or phrase
mispronounced or ungrammatically constructed. If your intimacy will
allow it, speak of the fault upon another occasion, kindly and
privately, or let it pass. Do not be continually watching for faults,
that you may display your own superior wisdom in correcting them. Let
modesty and kind feeling govern your conversation, as other rules of
life. If, on the other hand, your companion uses words or expressions
which you cannot understand, do not affect knowledge, or be ashamed of
your ignorance, but frankly ask for an explanation.

In conversing with professional gentlemen, never question them upon
matters connected with their employment. An author may communicate,
voluntarily, information interesting to you, upon the subject of his
works, but any questions from you would be extremely rude. If you meet a
physician who is attending a friend, you may enquire for their progress,
but do not expect him to give you a detailed account of the disease and
his manner of treating it. The same rule applies to questioning lawyers
about their clients, artists on their paintings, merchants or mechanics
of their several branches of business. Professional or business men,
when with ladies, generally wish for miscellaneous subjects of
conversation, and, as their visits are for recreation, they will feel
excessively annoyed if obliged to "talk shop." Still many men can
converse on no other subject than their every day employment. In this
case listen politely, and show your interest. You will probably gain
useful information in such conversation.

Never question the veracity of any statement made in general
conversation. If you are certain a statement is false, and it is
injurious to another person, who may be absent, you may quietly and
courteously inform the speaker that he is mistaken, but if the falsehood
is of no consequence, let it pass. If a statement appears monstrous, but
you do not _know_ that it is false, listen, but do not question its
veracity. It may be true, though it strikes you as improbable.

Never attempt to disparage an absent friend. It is the height of
meanness. If others admire her, and you do not, let them have their
opinion in peace; you will probably fail if you try to lower her in
their esteem, and gain for yourself the character of an ill-natured,
envious person.

In conversing with foreigners, if they speak slightingly of the manners
of your country, do not retort rudely, or resentfully. If their views
are wrong, converse upon the subject, giving them frankly your views,
but never retaliate by telling them that some custom of their own
country is worse. A gentleman or lady of true refinement will always
give your words candid consideration, and admit that an American may
possibly know the customs of her country better than they do, and if
your opponent is not well-bred, your rudeness will not improve his
manners. Let the conversation upon national subjects be candid, and at
the same time courteous, and leave him to think that the _ladies_ in
America are well-bred, however much he may dislike some little national
peculiarity.

Avoid, at all times, mentioning subjects or incidents that can in any
way disgust your hearers. Many persons will enter into the details of
sicknesses which should be mentioned only when absolutely necessary, or
describe the most revolting scenes before a room full of people, or even
at table. Others speak of vermin, noxious plants, or instances of
uncleanliness. All such conversation or allusion is excessively
ill-bred. It is not only annoying, but absolutely sickening to some, and
a truly lady-like person will avoid all such topics.

I cannot too severely censure the habit of using sentences which admit
of a double meaning. It is not only ill-bred, but indelicate, and no
person of true refinement will ever do it. If you are so unfortunate as
to converse with one who uses such phrases, never by word, look, or sign
show that you understand any meaning beyond the plain, outspoken
language.

Avoid always any discussion upon religious topics, unless you are
perfectly certain that your remarks cannot annoy or pain any one
present. If you are tête-à-tête with a friend, and such a discussion
arise, inquire your companion's church and mention your own, that you
may yourself avoid unpleasant remarks, and caution him.

Never, when advancing an opinion, assert positively that a thing "_is
so_," but give your opinion _as_ an opinion. Say, "I think this is so,"
or "these are _my_ views," but remember that your companion may be
better informed upon the subject under discussion, or, where it is a
mere matter of taste or feeling, do not expect that all the world will
feel exactly as you do.

Never repeat to a person with whom you converse, any unpleasant speech
you may have heard concerning her. If you can give her pleasure by the
repetition of a delicate compliment, or token of approval shown by a
mutual friend, tell her the pleasant speech or incident, but do not hurt
her feelings, or involve her in a quarrel by the repetition of
ill-natured remarks.

Amongst well-bred persons, every conversation is considered in a measure
confidential. A lady or gentleman tacitly confides in you when he (or
she) tells you an incident which may cause trouble if repeated, and you
violate a confidence as much in such a repetition, as if you were bound
over to secrecy. Remember this.

Never criticise a companion's dress, or indeed make any remark whatever
upon it. If a near friend, you may, if sincere, admire any article, but
with a mere acquaintance let it pass unnoticed. If, however, any
accident has happened to the dress, of which she is ignorant, tell her
of it, and assist her in repairing the mischief.

To be able to converse really well, you must read much, treasure in your
memory the pearls of what you read; you must have a quick comprehension,
observe passing events, and listen attentively whenever there is any
opportunity of acquiring knowledge. A quick tact is necessary, too, in
conversation. To converse with an entirely uneducated person upon
literature, interlarding your remarks with quotations, is ill-bred. It
places them in an awkward situation, and does not add to your
popularity. In conversing with persons of refinement and intelligence,
do not endeavor to attract their admiration by pouring forth every item
of your own information upon the subject under consideration, but listen
as well as talk, and modestly follow their lead. I do not mean, to
assent to any opinion they may advance, if you really differ in your own
tastes, but do not be _too_ ready to show your superior judgment or
information. Avoid argument; it is not conversation, and frequently
leads to ill feeling. If you are unfortunately drawn into an argument,
keep your temper under perfect control, and if you find your adversary
is getting too warm, endeavor to introduce some other topic.

Avoid carefully any allusion to the age or personal defects of your
companion, or any one who may be in the room, and be very careful in
your language when speaking of a stranger to another person. I have
heard a lady inquire of a gentleman, "who that frightful girl in blue
could be," and receive the information that the lady in question was the
gentleman's own sister.

Be careful, when traveling, not to wound the feelings of your friends in
another country or city, by underrating their native place, or
attempting to prove the superiority of your own home over theirs.

Very young girls are apt to suppose, from what they observe in older
ones, that there is some particular manner to be put on, in talking to
gentlemen, and, not knowing exactly what it is, they are embarrassed and
reserved; others observe certain airs and looks, used by their elders in
this intercourse, and try to imitate them, as a necessary part of
company behaviours, and, so become affected, and lose that first of
charms, simplicity, natural grace. To such, let me say, your companions
are in error; it requires no peculiar manner, nothing to be put on, in
order to converse with gentlemen, any more than with ladies; and the
more pure and elevated your sentiments are, and the better cultivated
your intellect is, the easier will you find it to converse pleasantly
with all. One good rule can be always followed by young ladies; to
converse with a lady friend as if there were gentlemen present, and to
converse with a gentleman as if in the room with other ladies.

Avoid affectation; it is the sure test of a deceitful, vulgar mind. The
best cure is to try to have those virtues which you would affect, and
then they will appear naturally.

DRESS.


"A lady is never so well dressed as when you cannot remember what she
wears."

No truer remark than the above was ever made. Such an effect can only be
produced where every part of the dress harmonizes entirely with the
other parts, where each color or shade suits the wearer's style
completely, and where there is perfect neatness in each detail. One
glaring color, or conspicuous article, would entirely mar the beauty of
such a dress. It is, unfortunately, too much the custom in America to
wear any article, or shape in make, that is fashionable, without any
regard to the style of the person purchasing goods. If it is the fashion
it must be worn, though it may greatly exaggerate a slight personal
defect, or conceal or mar what would otherwise be a beauty. It requires
the exercise of some judgment to decide how far an individual may follow
the dictates of fashion, in order to avoid the appearance of
eccentricity, and yet wear what is peculiarly becoming to her own face
or figure. Another fault of our fair countrywomen is their extravagance
in dress. No better advice can be given to a young person than to dress
always according to her circumstances. She will be more respected with
a simple wardrobe, if it is known either that she is dependent upon her
own exertions for support, or is saving a husband or father from
unnecessary outlay, than if she wore the most costly fabrics, and by so
doing incurred debt or burdened her relatives with heavy, unwarrantable
expense. If neatness, consistency, and good taste, preside over the
wardrobe of a lady, expensive fabrics will not be needed; for with the
simplest materials, harmony of color, accurate fitting to the figure,
and perfect neatness, she will always appear well dressed.


GENERAL RULES.

NEATNESS--This is the first of all rules to be observed with regard to
dress. Perfect cleanliness and careful adjustment of each article in the
dress are indispensable in a finished toilet. Let the hair be always
smooth and becomingly arranged, each article exquisitely clean, neat
collar and sleeves, and tidy shoes and stockings, and the simplest dress
will appear well, while a torn or soiled collar, rough hair, or untidy
feet will entirely ruin the effect of the most costly and elaborate
dress. The many articles required in a lady's wardrobe make a neat
arrangement of her drawers and closets necessary, and also require care
in selecting and keeping goods in proper order. A fine collar or lace,
if tumbled or soiled, will lose its beauty when contrasted with the same
article in the coarsest material perfectly pure and smooth. Each article
of dress, when taken off, should be placed carefully and smoothly in its
proper place. Nice dresses should be hung up by a loop on the inside of
the waistband, with the skirts turned inside out, and the body turned
inside of the skirt. Cloaks should hang in smooth folds from a loop on
the inside of the neck. Shawls should be always folded in the creases in
which they were purchased. All fine articles, lace, embroidery, and
handkerchiefs, should be placed by themselves in a drawer, always laid
out smoothly, and kept from dust. Furs should be kept in a box, alone,
and in summer carefully packed, with a quantity of lump camphor to
protect from moths. The bonnet should always rest upon a stand in the
band-box, as the shape and trimming will both be injured by letting it
lie either on the face, sides, or crown.

ADAPTIVENESS--Let each dress worn by a lady be suitable to the occasion
upon which she wears it. A toilet may be as offensive to good taste and
propriety by being too elaborate, as by being slovenly. Never wear a
dress which is out of place or out of season under the impression that
"it will do for once," or "nobody will notice it." It is in as bad taste
to receive your morning calls in an elaborate evening dress, as it would
be to attend a ball in your morning wrapper.

HARMONY--To appear well dressed without harmony, both in color and
materials, is impossible. When arranging any dress, whether for home,
street, or evening, be careful that each color harmonizes well with the
rest, and let no one article, by its glaring costliness, make all the
rest appear mean. A costly lace worn over a thin, flimsy silk, will only
make the dress appear poorer, not, as some suppose, hide its defects. A
rich trimming looks as badly upon a cheap dress, as a mean one does
upon an expensive fabric. Observe this rule always in purchasing goods.
One costly article will entirely ruin the harmony in a dress, which,
without it, though plain and inexpensive, would be becoming and
beautiful. Do not save on the dress or cloak to buy a more elaborate
bonnet, but let the cost be well equalized and the effect will be good.
A plain merino or dark silk, with a cloth cloak, will look much better
than the most expensive velvet cloak over a cheap delaine dress.

FASHION--Do not be too submissive to the dictates of fashion; at the
same time avoid oddity or eccentricity in your dress. There are some
persons who will follow, in defiance of taste and judgment, the fashion
to its most extreme point; this is a sure mark of vulgarity. Every new
style of dress will admit of adaptation to individual cases, thus
producing a pleasing, as well as fashionable effect. Not only good
taste, but health is often sacrificed to the silly error of dressing in
the extreme of fashion. Be careful to have your dress comfortable and
becoming, and let the prevailing mode come into secondary consideration;
avoiding, always, the other extreme of oddity or eccentricity in
costume.

STYLE AND FORM OF DRESS--Be always careful when making up the various
parts of your wardrobe, that each article fits you accurately. Not in
the outside garments alone must this rule be followed, an ill-fitting
pair of corsets, or wrinkles in any other article of the under-clothes,
will make a dress set badly, even if it has been itself fitted with the
utmost accuracy. A stocking which is too large, will make the boot
uncomfortably tight, and too small will compress the foot, making the
shoe loose and untidy. In a dress, no outlay upon the material will
compensate for a badly fitting garment. A cheap calico made to fit the
form accurately and easily, will give the wearer a more lady-like air
than the richest silk which either wrinkles or is too tightly strained
over the figure. Collars or sleeves, pinned over or tightly strained to
meet, will entirely mar the effect of the prettiest dress.

ECONOMY--And by economy I do not mean mere cheapness. To buy a poor,
flimsy fabric merely because the price is low, is extravagance, not
economy; still worse if you buy articles because they are offered cheap,
when you have no use for them. In purchasing goods for the wardrobe, let
each material be the best of its kind. The same amount of sewing that is
put into a good material, must be put into a poor one, and, as the
latter will very soon wash or wear out, there must be another one to
supply its place, purchased and made up, when, by buying a good article
at first, this time and labor might have been saved. A good, strong
material will be found cheapest in the end, though the actual
expenditure of money may be larger at first.

COMFORT--Many ladies have to trace months of severe suffering to an
improper disregard of comfort, in preparing their wardrobe, or in
exposure after they are dressed. The most exquisite ball costume will
never compensate for the injury done by tight lacing, the prettiest foot
is dearly paid for by the pain a tight boot entails, and the most
graceful effects will not prevent suffering from exposure to cold. A
light ball dress and exquisite arrangement of the hair, too often make
the wearer dare the inclemency of the coldest night, by wearing a light
shawl or hood, to prevent crushing delicate lace or flowers. Make it a
fixed rule to have the head, feet, and chest well protected when going
to a party, even at the risk of a crushed flower or a stray curl. Many a
fair head has been laid in a coffin, a victim to consumption, from
rashly venturing out of a heated ball room, flushed and excited, with
only a light protection against keen night air. The excitement of the
occasion may prevent immediate discomfort in such cases, but it adds to
the subsequent danger.

DETAILS--Be careful always that the details of your dress are perfectly
finished in every point. The small articles of a wardrobe require
constant care to keep in perfect order, yet they will wofully revenge
themselves if neglected. Let the collar, handkerchief, boots, gloves,
and belts be always whole, neat, and adapted to the dress. A lace collar
will look as badly over a chintz dress, as a linen one would with
velvet, though each may be perfect of its kind. Attention to these minor
points are sure tests of taste in a lady's dress. A shabby or ill
fitting boot or glove will ruin the most elaborate walking dress, while
one of much plainer make and coarser fabric will be becoming and
lady-like, if all the details are accurately fitted, clean, and well put
on. In arranging a dress for every occasion, be careful that there is no
missing string, hook, or button, that the folds hang well, and that
every part is even and properly adjusted. Let the skirts hang smoothly,
the outside ones being always about an inch longer than the under ones;
let the dress set smoothly, carefully hooked or buttoned; let the collar
fit neatly, and be fastened firmly and smoothly at the throat; let
shoes and stockings be whole, clean, and fit nicely; let the hair be
smooth and glossy, the skin pure, and the colors and fabric of your
dress harmonize and be suitable for the occasion, and you will always
appear both lady-like and well-dressed.


HOME DRESSES.

MORNING DRESS--The most suitable dress for breakfast, is a wrapper made
to fit the figure loosely, and the material, excepting when the winter
weather requires woolen goods, should be of chintz, gingham, brilliante,
or muslin. A lady who has children, or one accustomed to perform for
herself light household duties, will soon find the advantage of wearing
materials that will wash. A large apron of domestic gingham, which can
be taken off, if the wearer is called to see unexpected visiters, will
protect the front of the dress, and save washing the wrapper too
frequently. If a lady's domestic duties require her attention for
several hours in the morning, whilst her list of acquaintances is large,
and she has frequent morning calls, it is best to dress for callers
before breakfast, and wear over this dress a loose sack and skirt of
domestic gingham. This, while protecting the dress perfectly, can be
taken off at a moment's notice if callers are announced. Married ladies
often wear a cap in the morning, and lately, young girls have adopted
the fashion. It is much better to let the hair be perfectly smooth,
requiring no cap, which is often worn to conceal the lazy, slovenly
arrangement of the hair. A few moments given to making the hair smooth
and presentable without any covering, will not be wasted. Slippers of
embroidered cloth are prettiest with a wrapper, and in summer black
morocco is the most suitable for the house in the morning.

DRESS FOR MORNING VISITS--A lady should never receive her morning
callers in a wrapper, unless they call at an unusually early hour, or
some unexpected demand upon her time makes it impossible to change her
dress after breakfast. On the other hand, an elaborate costume before
dinner is in excessively bad taste. The dress should be made to fit the
figure neatly, finished at the throat and wrists by an embroidered
collar and cuffs, and, unless there is a necessity for it, in loss of
the hair or age, there should be no cap or head dress worn. A wrapper
made with handsome trimming, open over a pretty white skirt, may be worn
with propriety; but the simple dress worn for breakfast, or in the
exercise of domestic duties, is not suitable for the parlor when
receiving visits of ceremony in the morning.

EVENING DRESS--The home evening dress should be varied according to
circumstances. If no visitor is expected, the dress worn in the morning
is suitable for the evening; but to receive visitors, it should be of
lighter material, and a light head-dress may be worn. For young ladies,
at home, ribbon or velvet are the most suitable materials for a
head-dress. Flowers, unless they be natural ones in summer, are in very
bad taste, excepting in cases where a party of invited guests are
expected. Dark silk in winter, and thin material in summer, make the
most suitable dresses for evening, and the reception of the
chance-guests ladies in society may usually expect.

WALKING DRESSES--Walking dresses, to be in good taste, should be of
quiet colors, and never conspicuous. Browns, modes, and neutral tints,
with black and white, make the prettiest dresses for the street. Above
all, avoid wearing several bright colors. One may be worn with perfect
propriety to take off the sombre effect of a dress of brown or black,
but do not let it be too glaring, and wear but little of it. Let the
boots be sufficiently strong and thick to protect the feet from damp or
dust, and wear always neat, clean, nicely fitting gloves. The entire
effect of the most tasteful costume will be ruined if attention is not
paid to the details of dress. A soiled bonnet cap, untidy strings, or
torn gloves and collar will utterly spoil the prettiest costume. There
is no surer mark of vulgarity than over dressing or gay dressing in the
street. Let the materials be of the costliest kind, if you will, but do
not either wear the exaggerations of the fashion, or conspicuous colors.
Let good taste dictate the limits where fashion may rule, and let the
colors harmonize well, and be of such tints as will not attract
attention.

FOR MORNING CALLS--The dress should be plain, and in winter furs and
dark gloves may be worn.

FOR BRIDAL CALLS--The dress should be of light silk, the bonnet dressy,
and either a rich shawl or light cloak; no furs, and light gloves. In
summer, a lace or silk mantle and white gloves should be worn.

SHOPPING DRESSES--Should be of such material as will bear the crush of a
crowded store without injury, and neither lace or delicate fabrics
should ever be worn. A dress of merino in winter, with a cloth cloak
and plain velvet or silk bonnet is the most suitable. In summer, a
dress and cloak of plain mode-colored Lavella cloth, or any other cool
but strong fabric, with a simply trimmed straw bonnet, is the best dress
for a shopping excursion.

STORM DRESSES--A lady who is obliged to go out frequently in bad
weather, will find it both a convenience and economy to have a storm
dress. Both dress and cloak should be made of a woolen material,
(varying of course with the season,) which will shed water. White skirts
are entirely out of place, as, if the dress is held up, they will be in
a few moments disgracefully dirty. A woolen skirt, made quite short, to
clear the muddy streets, is the proper thing. Stout, thick-soled boots,
and gloves of either silk, beaver-cloth, or lisle thread, are the most
suitable. The bonnet should be either of straw or felt, simply trimmed;
and, above all, carry a _large_ umbrella. The little light umbrellas are
very pretty, no doubt, but to be of any real protection in a storm, the
umbrella should be large enough to protect the whole dress.

MARKETING--Here a dress of the most inexpensive kind is the best. There
is no surer mark of vulgarity, than a costly dress in the market. A
chintz is the best skirt to wear, and in winter a dark chintz skirt put
on over a delaine dress, will protect it from baskets, and the
unavoidable soils contracted in a market, while it looks perfectly well,
and can be washed if required.

TRAVELING--Traveling dresses should be made always of some quiet color,
perfectly plain, with a deep mantle or cloak of the same material. When
traveling with a young babe, a dress of material that will wash is the
best, but it should be dark and plain. A conspicuous traveling dress is
in very bad taste, and jewelry or ornaments of any kind are entirely out
of place. Let the dress be made of dark, plain material, with a simple
straw or felt bonnet, trimmed with the same color as the dress, and a
thick barege veil. An elastic string run through a tuck made in the
middle of the veil, will allow one half to fall over the face, while the
other half falls back, covering the bonnet, and protecting it from dust.
If white collars and sleeves are worn, they should be of linen,
perfectly plain. Strong boots and thick gloves are indispensable in
traveling, and a heavy shawl should be carried, to meet any sudden
change in the weather. Corsets and petticoats of dark linen are more
suitable than white ones, as there is so much unavoidable dust and mud
constantly meeting a traveler.

EVENING DRESSES--Must be governed by the number of guests you may expect
to meet, and the character of the entertainment to which you are
invited. For small social companies, a dark silk in winter, and a pretty
lawn, barege, or white muslin in summer, are the most appropriate. A
light head-dress of ribbon or velvet, or a plain cap, are the most
suitable with this dress. For a larger party, low-necked, short-sleeved
silk, light colored, or any of the thin goods made expressly for evening
wear, with kid gloves, either of a color to match the dress or of white;
black lace mittens are admissible, and flowers in the hair. A ball dress
should be made of either very dressy silk, or light, thin material made
over silk. It should be trimmed with lace, flowers, or ribbon, and made
dressy. The _coiffure_ should be elaborate, and match the dress, being
either of ribbon, feather, or flowers. White kid gloves, trimmed to
match the dress, and white or black satin slippers, with silk stockings,
must be worn.

MOURNING--There is such a variety of opinion upon the subject of
mourning, that it is extremely difficult to lay down any general rules
upon the subject. Some wear very close black for a long period, for a
distant relative; whilst others will wear dressy mourning for a short
time in a case of death in the immediate family. There is no rule either
for the depth of mourning, or the time when it may be laid aside, and I
must confine my remarks to the different degrees of mourning.

For deep mourning, the dress should be of bombazine, Parramatta cloth,
delaine, barege, or merino, made up over black lining. The only
appropriate trimming is a deep fold, either of the same material or of
crape. The shawl or cloak must be of plain black, without border or
trimming, unless a fold of crape be put on the cloak; the bonnet should
be of crape, made perfectly plain, with crape facings, unless the
widow's cap be worn, and a deep crape veil should be thrown over both
face and bonnet. Black crape collar and sleeves, and black boots and
gloves. The next degree is to wear white collar and sleeves, a bow of
crape upon the bonnet, and plain white lace facings, leaving off the
crape veil, and substituting one of plain black net. A little later,
black silk without any gloss, trimmed with crape, may be worn, and
delaine or bombazine, with a trimming of broad, plain ribbon, or a bias
fold of silk. The next stage admits a silk bonnet trimmed with crape,
and lead color, dark purple, or white figures on the dress. From this
the mourning passes into second mourning. Here a straw bonnet, trimmed
with black ribbon or crape flowers, or a silk bonnet with black flowers
on the outside, and white ones in the face, a black silk dress, and gray
shawl or cloak, may be worn. Lead color, purple, lavender, and white,
are all admissible in second mourning, and the dress may be lightened
gradually, a white bonnet, shawl, and light purple or lavender dress,
being the dress usually worn last, before the mourning is thrown aside
entirely, and colors resumed. It is especially to be recommended to buy
always the best materials when making up mourning. Crape and woolen
goods of the finest quality are very expensive, but a cheaper article
will wear miserably; there is no greater error in economy than
purchasing cheap mourning, for no goods are so inferior, or wear out and
grow rusty so soon.


TRAVELING.


There is no situation in which a lady is more exposed than when she
travels, and there is no position where a dignified, lady-like
deportment is more indispensable and more certain to command respect. If
you travel under the escort of a gentleman, give him as little trouble
as possible; at the same time, do not interfere with the arrangements he
may make for your comfort. It is best, when starting upon your journey,
to hand your escort a sufficient sum of money to cover all your
expenses, retaining your pocket book in case you should wish to use it.
Have a strong pocket made in your upper petticoat, and in that carry
your money, only reserving in your dress pocket a small sum for
incidental expenses. In your traveling satchel carry an oil skin bag,
containing your sponge, tooth and nail brushes, and some soap; have also
a calico bag, with hair brush and comb, some pins, hair pins, a small
mirror, and some towels. In this satchel carry also some crackers, or
sandwiches, if you will be long enough upon the road to need a luncheon.

In your carpet bag, carry a large shawl, and if you will travel by
night, or stop where it will be inconvenient to open your trunks, carry
your night clothes, and what clean linen you may require, in the carpet
bag. It is best to have your name and address engraved upon the plate of
your carpet bag, and to sew a white card, with your name and the address
to which you are traveling, in clear, plain letters upon it. If you
carry a novel or any other reading, it is best to carry the book in your
satchel, and not open the carpet bag until you are ready for the night.
If you are to pass the night in the cars, carry a warm woolen or silk
hood, that you may take off your bonnet at night. No one can sleep
comfortably in a bonnet. Carry also, in this case, a large shawl to wrap
round your feet.

One rule to be always observed in traveling is punctuality. Rise early
enough to have ample time for arranging everything needful for the day's
journey. If you sleep upon the boat, or at a hotel, always give
directions to the servant to waken you at an hour sufficiently early to
allow ample time for preparation. It is better to be all ready twenty
minutes too soon, than five minutes late, or even late enough to be
annoyed and heated by hurrying at the last moment.

A lady will always dress plainly when traveling. A gay dress, or finery
of any sort, when in a boat, stage, or car, lays a woman open to the
most severe misconstruction. Wear always neutral tints, and have the
material made up plainly and substantially, but avoid carefully any
article of dress that is glaring or conspicuous. Above all, never wear
jewelry, (unless it be your watch,) or flowers; they are both in
excessively bad taste. A quiet, unpretending dress, and dignified
demeanor, will insure for a lady respect, though she travel alone from
Maine to Florida.

If you are obliged to pass the night upon a steamboat secure, if
possible, a stateroom. You will find the luxury of being alone, able to
retire and rise without witnesses, fully compensates for the extra
charge. Before you retire, find out the position and number of the
stateroom occupied by your escort, in case you wish to find him during
the night. In times of terror, from accident or danger, such care will
be found invaluable.

You may not be able to obtain a stateroom upon all occasions when
traveling, and must then sleep in the ladies' cabin. It is best, in this
case, to take off the dress only, merely loosening the stays and skirts,
and, unless you are sick, you may sit up to read until quite a late
hour. Never allow your escort to accompany you into the cabin. The
saloon is open always to both ladies and gentlemen, and the cabin is for
ladies _alone_. Many ladies are sufficiently ill-bred to ask a husband
or brother into the cabin, and keep him there talking for an hour or
two, totally overlooking the fact that by so doing she may be keeping
others, suffering, perhaps, with sickness, from removing their dresses
to lie down. Such conduct is not only excessively ill-bred, but
intensely selfish.

There is scarcely any situation in which a lady can be placed, more
admirably adapted to test her good breeding, than in the sleeping cabin
of a steam-boat. If you are so unfortunate as to suffer from
sea-sickness, your chances for usefulness are limited, and patient
suffering your only resource. In this case, never leave home without a
straw-covered bottle of brandy, and another of camphor, in your
carpet-bag. If you are not sick, be very careful not to keep the
chambermaid from those who are suffering; should you require her
services, dismiss her as soon as possible. As acquaintances, formed
during a journey, are not recognized afterwards, unless mutually
agreeable, do not refuse either a pleasant word or any little offer of
service from your companions; and, on the other hand, be ready to aid
them, if in your power. In every case, selfishness is the root of all
ill-breeding, and it is never more conspicuously displayed than in
traveling. A courteous manner, and graceful offer of service are valued
highly when offered, and the giver loses nothing by her civility.

When in the car if you find the exertion of talking painful, say so
frankly; your escort cannot be offended. Do not continually pester
either your companion or the conductor with questions, such as "Where
are we now?" "When shall we arrive?" If you are wearied, this impatience
will only make the journey still more tedious. Try to occupy yourself
with looking at the country through which you are passing, or with a
book.

If you are traveling without any escort, speak to the conductor before
you start, requesting him to attend to you whilst in the car or boat
under his control. Sit quietly in the cars when they reach the depot
until the first bustle is over, and then engage a porter to procure for
you a hack, and get your baggage. If upon a boat, let one of the
servants perform this office, being careful to fee him for it. Make an
engagement with the hackman, to take you only in his hack, and enquire
his charge before starting. In this way you avoid unpleasant company
during your drive, and overcharge at the end of it.

If you expect a friend to meet you at the end of your journey, sit near
the door of the steam-boat saloon, or in the ladies' room at the car
depot, that he may find you easily.

There are many little civilities which a true gentleman will offer to a
lady traveling alone, which she may accept, even from an entire
stranger, with perfect propriety; but, while careful to thank him
courteously, whether you accept or decline his attentions, avoid any
advance towards acquaintanceship. If he sits near you and seems disposed
to be impertinent, or obtrusive in his attentions or conversation, lower
your veil and turn from him, either looking from the window or reading.
A dignified, modest reserve is the surest way to repel impertinence. If
you find yourself, during your journey, in any awkward or embarrassing
situation, you may, without impropriety, request the assistance of a
gentleman, even a stranger, and he will, probably, perform the service
requested, receive your thanks, and then relieve you of his presence.
Never, upon any account, or under any provocation, return rudeness by
rudeness. Nothing will rebuke incivility in another so surely as perfect
courtesy in your own manner. Many will be shamed into apology, who would
annoy you for hours, if you encouraged them by acts of rudeness on your
own part.

In traveling alone, choose, if possible, a seat next to another lady, or
near an elderly gentleman. If your neighbor seems disposed to shorten
the time by conversing, do not be too hasty in checking him. Such
acquaintances end with the journey, and a lady can always so deport
herself that she may beguile the time pleasantly, without, in the least,
compromising her dignity.

Any slight attention, or an apology made for crushing or incommoding
you, is best acknowledged by a courteous bow, in silence.


HOW TO BEHAVE AT A HOTEL.


In America, where the mania for traveling extends through all classes,
from the highest to the lowest, a few hints upon deportment at a hotel
will not be amiss, and these hints are especially addressed to ladies
traveling alone.

When you arrive at the hotel, enquire at once for the proprietor. Tell
him your name and address, and ask him to conduct you to a good room,
naming the length of time you purpose occupying it. You may also request
him to wait upon you to the table, and allot you a seat. As the hours
for meals, at a large hotel, are very numerous, it is best to mention
the time when you wish to breakfast, dine, or sup. If you stay more than
one day at the hotel, do not tax the proprietor with the duty of
escorting you to the table more than once. Request one of the waiters
always to meet you as you enter, and wait upon you to your seat. This
saves the embarrassment of crossing the room entirely unattended, while
it shows others that you are a resident at the house. The waiter will
then take your order for the dishes you wish. Give this order in a low
tone, and do not harass the man by contradicting yourself several
times; decide what you want before you ask for it, and then give your
order quietly but distinctly. Use, always, the butter-knife, salt-spoon,
and sugar-tongs, though you may be entirely alone in the use of them.
The attention to the small details of table etiquette is one of the
surest marks of good breeding. If any trifling civility is offered by
the gentleman beside you, or opposite to you, thank him civilly, if you
either accept or decline it. Thank the waiter for any extra attention he
may offer.

Remember that a lady-like deportment is always modest and quiet. If you
meet a friend at table, and converse, let it be in a tone of voice
sufficiently loud for him to hear, but not loud enough to reach ears for
which the remarks are not intended. A boisterous, loud voice, loud
laughter, and bold deportment, at a hotel, are sure signs of vulgar
breeding.

When you have finished your meal, cross the room quietly; if you go into
the parlor, do not attract attention by a hasty entrance, or forward
manner, but take the seat you may select, quietly.

The acquaintances made in a hotel may be dropped afterwards, if
desirable, without rudeness, and a pleasant greeting to other ladies
whom you may recognize from meeting them in the entries or at table, is
courteous and well-bred; be careful, however, not to force attentions
where you see they are not agreeably received.

A lady's dress, when alone at a hotel, should be of the most modest
kind. At breakfast let her wear a close, morning dress, and never, even
at supper, appear alone at the table with bare arms or neck. If she
comes in late from the opera or a party, in full dress, she should not
come into the supper-room, unless her escort accompanies her. A
traveling or walking-dress can be worn with perfect propriety, at any
meal at a hotel, as it is usually travelers who are the guests at the
table.

After breakfast, pass an hour or two in the parlor, unless you are going
out, whilst the chambermaid puts your room in order. You should, before
leaving the room, lock your trunk, and be careful not to leave money or
trinkets lying about. When you go out, lock your door, and give the key
to the servant to hand to the clerk of the office, who will give it to
you when you return. You may do this, even if you leave the room in
disorder, as the chambermaids all carry duplicate keys, and can easily
enter your room in your absence to arrange it. The door should not be
left open, as dishonest persons, passing along the entry, could enter
without fear of being questioned.

If you see that another lady, though she may be an entire stranger, is
losing her collar, or needs attention called to any disorder in her
dress, speak to her in a low tone, and offer to assist her in remedying
the difficulty.

Be careful always in opening a door or raising a window in a public
parlor, that you are not incommoding any one else.

Never sit down to the piano uninvited, unless you are alone in the
parlor. Do not take any book you may find in the room away from it.

It is best always to carry writing materials with you, but if this is
not convenient, you can always obtain them at the office.

In a strange city it is best to provide yourself with a small map and
guide book, that you may be able to find your way from the hotel to any
given point, without troubling any one for directions.

If you wish for a carriage, ring, and let the waiter order one for you.

When leaving a hotel, if you have been there for several days, give the
waiter at table, and the chambermaid, a fee, as your unprotected
situation will probably call for many services out of their regular
routine of duties.

On leaving, ring, order your bill, pay it, state the time at which you
wish to leave, and the train you will take to leave the city. Request a
man to be sent, to carry your baggage to the hack; and if you require
your next meal at an unusual hour, to be ready for your journey, order
it then.


EVENING PARTIES.

ETIQUETTE FOR THE HOSTESS.


The most fashionable as well as pleasant way in the present day, to
entertain guests, is to invite them to evening parties, which vary in
size from the "company," "sociable," "soirée," to the party, _par
excellence_, which is but one step from the ball.

The entertainment upon such occasions, may vary with the taste of the
hostess, or the caprice of her guests. Some prefer dancing, some music,
some conversation. Small parties called together for dramatic or
poetical readings, are now fashionable, and very delightful.

In writing an invitation for a small party, it is kind, as well as
polite, to specify the number of guests invited, that your friends may
dress to suit the occasion. To be either too much, or too little dressed
at such times is embarrassing.

For large parties, the usual formula is:

   _Miss S----'s compliments to Miss G----, and requests the
   pleasure of her company for Wednesday, March 8th, at 8
   o'clock._

Such an invitation, addressed either to an intimate friend or mere
acquaintance, will signify full dress.

If your party is a musical soirée, or your friends meet for reading or
conversation alone, say so in your invitation, as--

   _Miss S---- requests the pleasure of Miss G----'s company, on
   Thursday evening next, at 8 o'clock, to meet the members of
   the musical club, to which Miss S---- belongs_;

   or,

   _Miss S---- expects a few friends, on Monday evening next, at
   8 o'clock, to take part in some dramatic readings, and would
   be happy to have Miss G---- join the party._

Always date your note of invitation, and put your address in one corner.

Having dispatched these notes, the next step is to prepare to receive
your guests. If the number invited is large, and you hire waiters, give
them notice several days beforehand, and engage them to come in the
morning. Give them full directions for the supper, appoint one to open
the door, another to show the guests to the dressing rooms, and a third
to wait in the gentlemen's dressing-room, to attend to them, if their
services are required.

If you use your own plate, glass, and china, show the waiters where to
find them, as well as the table cloths, napkins, and other things they
may require. If you hire the service from the confectioner's or
restaurateur's where you order your supper, you have only to show your
waiters where to spread supper, and tell them the hour.

You will have to place at least four rooms at the disposal of your
guests--the supper room, and two dressing-rooms, beside the
drawing-room.

In the morning, see that the fires in your rooms are in good order; and
in the drawing-room, it is best to have it so arranged that the heat can
be lessened towards evening, as the crowd, and dancing, will make it
excessively uncomfortable if the rooms are too warm. See that the lights
are in good order, and if you propose to have music instead of dancing,
or to use your piano for dancing music, have it put in good tune in the
morning. If you intend to dance, and do not wish to take up the carpets,
you will find it economical, as well as much pleasanter, to cover them
with coarse white muslin or linen; be sure it is fastened down smoothly,
firmly, and drawn tightly over the carpets.

Do not remove all the chairs from the parlor; or, if this is necessary,
leave some in the hall, for those who wish to rest after dancing.

In the dining-room, unless it will accommodate all your guests at once,
have a silk cord so fastened that, when the room is full, it can be
drawn across the door-way; those following the guests already in the
room, will then return to the parlor, and wait their turn. A still
better way, is to set the supper table twice, inviting the married and
elderly people to go into the first table, and then, after it is ready
for the second time, let the young folks go up.

Two dressing-rooms must be ready; one for the ladies, and the other for
the gentlemen. Have both these rooms comfortably heated, and well
lighted. Nothing can be more disagreeable than cold, ill-lighted rooms
to dress in, particularly if your guests come in half-frozen by the
cold of a winter's night, or still worse, damp from a stormy one.

Be sure that there is plenty of water, soap and towels on the washstand,
two or three brushes and combs on the bureau, two mirrors, one large and
one small, and a pin cushion, well filled with large and small pins.

In the ladies' room, have one, or if your party is large, two women to
wait upon your guests; to remove their cloaks, overshoes, and hoods, and
assist them in smoothing their dresses or hair. After each guest removes
her shawl and hood, let one of the maids roll all the things she lays
aside into a bundle, and put it where she can easily find it. It is an
admirable plan, and prevents much confusion, to pin to each bundle, a
card, or strip of paper, (previously prepared,) with the name of the
person to whom it belongs written clearly and distinctly upon it.

Upon the bureau in the ladies' room, have a supply of hair-pins, and a
workbox furnished with everything requisite to repair any accident that
may happen to the dress of a guest. It is well, also, to have Eau de
Cologne, hartshorn, and salts, in case of sudden faintness.

In the gentlemen's room, place a clothes brush and boot-jack.

It is best to send out your invitations by your own servant, or one
hired for that purpose especially. It is ill-bred to send invitations
either by the dispatch, or through the post-office; and besides being
discourteous, you risk offending your friends, as these modes of
delivery are proverbially uncertain.

Be dressed and ready to receive your guests in good season, as some, in
their desire to be punctual, may come before the time appointed. It is
better to be ready too soon, than too late, as your guests will feel
painfully embarrassed if you are not ready to receive them.

For the early part of the evening, take a position in your parlor, near
or opposite to the door, that each guest may find you easily. It is not
necessary to remain all the evening nailed to this one spot, but stay
near it until your guests have all or nearly all assembled. Late comers
will of course expect to find you entertaining your guests.

As each guest or party enter the room, advance a few steps to meet them,
speaking first to the lady, or if there are several ladies, to the
eldest, then to the younger ones, and finally to the gentlemen. If the
new comers are acquainted with those already in the room, they will
leave you, after a few words of greeting, to join their friends; but if
they are strangers to the city, or making their first visit to your
house, introduce them to a friend who is well acquainted in your circle,
who will entertain them till you can again join them and introduce them
to others.

Do not leave the room during the evening. To see a hostess fidgeting,
constantly going in and out, argues ill for her tact in arranging the
house for company. With well-trained waiters, you need give yourself no
uneasiness about the arrangements outside of the parlors.

The perfection of good breeding in a hostess, is perfect ease of
manner; for the time she should appear to have no thought or care beyond
the pleasure of her guests.

Have a waiter in the hall to open the front door, and another at the
head of the first flight of stairs, to point out to the ladies and
gentlemen their respective dressing-rooms.

Never try to outshine your guests in dress. It is vulgar in the extreme.
A hostess should be dressed as simply as is consistent with the
occasion, wearing, if she will, the richest fabrics, exquisitely made,
but avoiding any display of jewels or gay colors, such as will be,
probably, more conspicuous than those worn by her guests.

Remember, from the moment your first guest enters the parlor, you must
forget yourself entirely to make the evening pleasant for others. Your
duties will call you from one group to another, and require constant
watchfulness that no one guest is slighted. Be careful that none of the
company are left to mope alone from being unacquainted with other
guests. Introduce gentlemen to ladies, and gentlemen to gentlemen,
ladies to ladies.

It requires much skill and tact to make a party for conversation only,
go off pleasantly. You must invite only such guests as will mutually
please, and you must be careful about introductions. If you have a
literary lion upon your list, it is well to invite other lions to meet
him or her, that the attention may not be constantly concentrated upon
one person. Where you see a couple conversing slowly and wearily, stir
them up with a few sprightly words, and introduce a new person, either
to make a trio, or, as a substitute in the duet, carrying off the other
one of the couple to find a more congenial companion elsewhere. Never
interrupt an earnest or apparently interesting conversation. Neither
party will thank you, even if you propose the most delightful
substitute.

If your party meet for reading, have a table with the books in the
centre of the apartment, that will divide the room, those reading being
on one side, the listeners on the other. Be careful here not to endeavor
to shine above your guests, leaving to them the most prominent places,
and taking, cheerfully, a subordinate place. On the other hand, if you
are urged to display any talent you may possess in this way, remember
your only desire is to please your guests, and if they are really
desirous to listen to you, comply, gracefully and promptly, with their
wishes.

If you have dancing, and have not engaged a band, it is best to hire a
pianist for the evening to play dancing music. You will find it
exceedingly wearisome to play yourself all the evening, and it is
ill-bred to ask any guest to play for others to dance. This victimizing
of some obliging guest is only too common, but no true lady will ever be
guilty of such rudeness. If there are several members of the family able
and willing to play, let them divide this duty amongst them, or, if you
wish to play yourself, do so. If any guest, in this case, offers to
relieve you, accept their kindness for _one_ dance only. Young people,
who enjoy dancing, but who also play well, will often stay on the
piano-stool all the evening, because their own good-nature will not
allow them to complain, and their hostess wilfully, or through
negligence, permits the tax.

See that your guests are well provided with partners, introducing every
gentleman and lady who dances, to one who will dance well with them. Be
careful that none sit still through your negligence in providing
partners.

Do not dance yourself, when, by so doing, you are preventing a guest
from enjoying that pleasure. If a lady is wanted to make up a set, then
dance, or if, late in the evening, you have but few lady dancers left,
but do not interfere with the pleasure in others. If invited, say that
you do not wish to take the place of a guest upon the floor, and
introduce the gentleman who invites you to some lady friend who dances.

It is very pleasant in a dancing party to have ices _alone_, handed
round at about ten o'clock, having supper set two or three hours later.
They are very refreshing, when it would be too early to have the more
substantial supper announced.

It is very customary now, even in large parties, to have no refreshments
but ice-cream, lemonade, and cake, or, in summer, fruit, cake, and ices.
It is less troublesome, as well as less expensive, than a hot supper,
and the custom will be a good one to adopt permanently.

One word of warning to all hostesses. You can never know, when you place
wine or brandy before your guests, whom you may be tempting to utter
ruin. Better, far better, to have a reputation as strict, or mean, than
by your example, or the temptation you offer, to have the sin upon your
soul of having put poison before those who partook of your hospitality.
It is not necessary; hospitality and generosity do not require it, and
you will have the approval of all who truly love you for your good
qualities, if you resolutely refuse to have either wine or any other
intoxicating liquor upon your supper-table.

If the evening of your party is stormy, let a waiter stand in the
vestibule with a _large_ umbrella, to meet the ladies at the carriage
door, and protect them whilst crossing the pavement and steps.

When your guests take leave of you, it will be in the drawing-room, and
let that farewell be final. Do not accompany them to the dressing-room,
and never stop them in the hall for a last word. Many ladies do not like
to display their "sortie du soirée" before a crowded room, and you will
be keeping their escort waiting. Say farewell in the parlor, and do not
repeat it.

If your party is mixed, that is, conversation, dancing, and music are
all mingled, remember it is your place to invite a guest to sing or
play, and be careful not to offend any amateur performers by forgetting
to invite them to favor the company. If they decline, never urge the
matter. If the refusal proceeds from unwillingness or inability on that
occasion, it is rude to insist; and if they refuse for the sake of being
urged, they will be justly punished by a disappointment. If you have
guests who, performing badly, will expect an invitation to play,
sacrifice their desire to the good of the others, pass them by. It is
torture to listen to bad music.

Do not ask a guest to sing or play more than once. This is her fair
share, and you have no right to tax her too severely to entertain your
other guests. If, however, the performance is so pleasing that others
ask for a repetition, then you too may request it, thanking the
performer for the pleasure given.


EVENING PARTIES.

ETIQUETTE FOR THE GUEST.


Upon receiving an invitation for an evening party, answer it
immediately, that your hostess may know for how many guests she must
provide. If, after accepting an invitation, any unforeseen event
prevents your keeping the engagement, write a second note, containing
your regrets. The usual form is:--

  _Miss G---- accepts with pleasure Miss S----'s polite
  invitation for Monday next_;

  or,

  _Miss G---- regrets that a prior engagement will prevent her
  accepting Miss S----'s kind invitation for Monday evening._

Punctuality is a mark of politeness, if your invitation states the hour
at which your hostess will be ready to welcome you. Do not be more than
half an hour later than the time named, but if unavoidably detained,
make no apology when you meet your hostess; it will be in bad taste to
speak of your want of punctuality.

When you arrive at your friend's house, do not stop to speak to any one
in the hall, or upon the stairs, but go immediately to the dressing
room. The gentleman who accompanies you will go to the door of the
lady's room, leave you, to remove his own hat and over-coat, and then
return to the door to wait for you.

In the dressing-room, do not push forward to the mirror if you see that
others are before you there. Wait for your turn, then perform the
needful arrangements of your toilette quickly, and re-join your escort
as soon as possible. If you meet friends in the lady's-room, do not stop
there to chat; you keep your escort waiting, and your friends will join
you in the parlor a few moments later.

Avoid all confidential communications or private remarks in the
dressing-room. You may be overheard, and give pain or cause annoyance by
your untimely conversation.

When you enter the parlor, go immediately to your hostess, and speak to
her; if the gentleman attending you is a stranger to the lady of the
house, introduce him, and then join the other guests, as by delaying, to
converse too long with your hostess, you may prevent her speaking to
others who have arrived later than yourself.

If you have no escort, you may with perfect propriety send for the
master of the house, to wait upon you from the dressing-room to the
parlor, and as soon as you have spoken to the hostess, thank your host
and release him, as the same attention may be required by others.
Again, when alone, if you meet a friend in the dressing-room, you may
ask the privilege of entering the parlor with her and her escort; or, if
she also is alone, there is no impropriety in _two_ ladies going into
the room unattended by a gentleman.

While you maintain a cheerful deportment, avoid loud talking and
laughing, and still more carefully avoid any action or gesture that may
attract attention and make you conspicuous.

When dressing for a party, while you show that you honor the occasion by
a tasteful dress, avoid glaring colors, or any conspicuous ornament or
style of costume.

Avoid long tête-à-tête conversations; they are in bad taste, and to hold
confidential communication, especially with gentlemen, is still worse.

Do not make any display of affection for even your dearest friend;
kissing in public, or embracing, are in bad taste. Walking with arms
encircling waists, or such demonstrative tokens of love, are marks of
low breeding.

Avoid crossing the room alone, and never run, even if you feel
embarrassed, and wish to cross quickly.

If you are a musician, and certain that you will confer pleasure by a
display of your talents, do not make a show of reluctance when invited
to play or sing. Comply gracefully, and after one piece, leave the
instrument. Be careful to avoid the appearance of wishing to be invited,
and, above all, never hint that this would be agreeable. If your hostess
has requested you to bring your notes, and you are dependent upon them,
bring them, and quietly place them on the music stand, or, still
better, send them in the afternoon. It is a better plan, if you are
called upon frequently to contribute in this way to the evening's
amusement, to learn a few pieces so as to play them perfectly well
without notes.

Never attempt any piece before company, unless you are certain that you
can play it without mistake or hesitation. When you have finished your
song or piece, rise instantly from the piano stool, as your hostess may
wish to invite another guest to take the place. If you have a reason for
declining to play, do so decidedly when first invited, and do not change
your decision.

If your hostess or any of the family play for the guests to dance, it is
both polite and kind to offer to relieve them; and if truly polite
themselves, they will not take advantage of the offer, to _over_ tax
your good nature.

When others are playing or singing, listen quietly and attentively; to
laugh or talk loudly when there is music in the room, is rude, both
toward the performer and your hostess. If you are conversing at the time
the music begins, and you find that your companion is not disposed to
listen to the performer at the harp or piano, converse in a low tone,
and take a position at some distance from the instrument.

If the rooms are not large enough for all the guests to dance at one
time, do not dance every set, even if invited. It is ill-bred and
selfish.

When you go up to supper, do not accept anything from any gentleman but
the one who has escorted you from the parlor. If others offer you, as
they probably will, any refreshment, say that Mr. ---- (naming your
escort) has gone to get you what you desire. He has a right to be
offended, if, after telling him what you wish for, he returns to find
you already supplied. It is quite as rude to offer what he brings to
another lady. Her escort is probably on the same errand from which yours
has just returned. It may seem trivial and childish to warn a lady
against putting cakes or bon-bons in her pocket at supper, yet it is
often done by those who would deeply resent the accusation of rudeness
or meanness. It is not only ill-bred, but it gives rise, if seen, to
suspicions that you are so little accustomed to society, or so starved
at home, that you are ignorant of the forms of etiquette, or are forced
to the theft by positive hunger.

If you are obliged to leave the company at an earlier hour than the
other guests, say so to your hostess in a low tone, when you have an
opportunity, and then stay a short time in the room, and slip out
unperceived. By a formal leave-taking, you may lead others to suppose
the hour later than it is in reality, and thus deprive your hostess of
other guests, who, but for your example, would have remained longer.
French leave is preferable to a formal leave-taking upon such occasions.

If you remain until the usual hour for breaking up, go to your hostess
before you leave the room, express the pleasure you have enjoyed, and
bid her farewell.

Within the next week, you should call upon your hostess, if it is the
first party you have attended at her house. If she is an intimate
friend, the call should be made within a fortnight.


VISITING.

ETIQUETTE FOR THE HOSTESS.


When you write to invite a friend to visit you, name a time when it will
be convenient and agreeable for you to receive her, and if she accepts
your invitation, so arrange your duties and engagements that they will
not interfere with your devoting the principal part of your time to the
entertainment of your guest. If you have certain duties which must be
performed daily, say so frankly when she first arrives, and see that
during the time you are so occupied she has work, reading, music, or
some other employment, to pass the time away pleasantly.

Have a room prepared especially for her use, and let her occupy it
alone. Many persons have a dislike to any one sleeping with them, and
will be kept awake by a companion in the room or bed. Above all, do not
put a child to sleep in the chamber with your guest.

The day before your friend arrives, have her room swept, dusted, and
aired; put clean, fresh linen upon the bed, see that the curtains are in
good order, the locks in perfect repair, and the closet or wardrobe and
bureau empty for her clothes. Have upon the bureau a pin cushion well
filled, hair pins, brush and comb, and two mirrors, one large, and one
small for the hand, as she may wish to smooth her hair, without
unpacking her own toilet articles. Upon the washstand, have two pitchers
full of water, a cup, tumbler, soap-dish and soap, basin, brush-dish,
and a sponge, wash rag, and plenty of clean towels.

Have both a feather bed and a mattress upon the bedstead, that she may
place whichever she prefers uppermost. Two sheets, a blanket, quilt, and
counterpane, should be on the bed, and there should be two extra
blankets in the room, should she require more covering in the night.

On the mantel piece, place a few books that she may read, if she wishes,
before sleeping. Have upon the mantel piece a box of matches, and if the
room is not lighted by gas, have also a supply of candles in a box, and
a candlestick.

If the room is not heated by a furnace, be careful that the fire is made
every morning before she rises, and keep a good supply of fuel in the
room.

Besides the larger chairs, have a low one, to use while changing the
shoes or washing the feet.

Upon the table, place a full supply of writing materials, as your guest
may wish to send word of her safe arrival before unpacking her own
writing-desk. Put two or three postage stamps upon this table.

Be sure that bells, locks, hinges, and windows, are all in perfect
order.

Before your guest arrives, go to her room. If it is in winter, have a
good fire, hot water on the washstand, and see that the windows are
tightly closed, and the room cheerful with sunshine, or plenty of candle
or gas light. If in summer, draw the curtains, bow the shutters, open
the windows, and have a fan upon the table. It is well to have a bath
ready, should your guest desire that refreshment after the dust and heat
of traveling.

When the time arrives at which you may expect your guest, send a
carriage to the station to meet her, and, if possible, go yourself, or
send some member of the family to welcome her there. After her baggage
is on the carriage, drive immediately to the house, and be certain all
is ready there for her comfort.

As soon as she is at your house, have her trunks carried immediately to
her own room, and lead her there yourself. Then, after warmly assuring
her how welcome she is, leave her alone to change her dress, bathe, or
lie down if she wishes. If her journey has been a long one, and it is
not the usual hour for your next meal, have a substantial repast ready
for her about half an hour after her arrival, with tea or coffee.

If she arrives late at night, after she has removed her bonnet and
bathed her face, invite her to partake of a substantial supper, and then
pity her weariness and lead the way to her room. She may politely assert
that she can still sit up and talk, but be careful you do not keep her
up too long; and do not waken her in the morning. After the first day,
she will, of course, desire to breakfast at your usual hour, but if she
has had a long, fatiguing journey, she will be glad to sleep late the
first day. Be careful that she has a hot breakfast ready when she does
rise, and take a seat at the table to wait upon her.

After the chambermaid has arranged the guest-chamber in the morning, go
in yourself and see that all is in order, and comfortable, and that
there is plenty of fresh water and towels, the bed properly made, and
the room dusted. Then do not go in again through the day, unless
invited. If you are constantly running in, to put a chair back, open or
shut the windows, or arrange the furniture, you will entirely destroy
the pleasantest part of your guest's visit, by reminding her that she is
not at home, and must not take liberties, even in her own room. It
looks, too, as if you were afraid to trust her, and thought she would
injure the furniture.

If you have children, forbid them to enter the room your friend
occupies, unless she invites them to do so, or they are sent there with
a message.

If your household duties will occupy your time for some hours in the
morning, introduce your guest to the piano, book-case, or picture-folio,
and place all at her service. When your duties are finished, either join
her in her own room, or invite her to sit with you, and work, chatting,
meanwhile, together. If you keep your own carriage, place it at her
disposal as soon as she arrives.

If she is a stranger in the city, accompany her to the points of
interest she may wish to visit, and also offer to show her where to find
the best goods, should she wish to do any shopping.

Enquire of your visitor if there is any particular habit she may wish to
indulge in, such as rising late, retiring early, lying down in the
daytime, or any other habit that your family do not usually follow. If
there is, arrange it so that she may enjoy her peculiarity in comfort.
If there is any dish which is distasteful to her, avoid placing it upon
the table during her visit, and if she mentions, in conversation, any
favorite dish, have it frequently placed before her.

If she is accustomed to eat just before retiring, and your family do not
take supper, see that something is sent to her room every night.

If your friend has intimate friends in the same city, beside yourself,
it is an act of kindly courtesy to invite them to dinner, tea, or to
pass a day, and when calls are made, and you see that it would be
pleasant, invite the caller to remain to dinner or tea.

Never accept any invitation, either to a party, ball, or public
entertainment, that does not include your guest. In answering the
invitation give that as your reason for declining, when another note
will be sent enclosing an invitation for her. If the invitation is from
an intimate friend, say, in answering it, that your guest is with you,
and that she will accompany you.

It is a mistaken idea to suppose that hospitality and courtesy require
_constant_ attention to a guest. There are times when she may prefer to
be alone, either to write letters, to read, or practice. Some ladies
follow a guest from one room to another, never leaving them alone for a
single instant, when they would enjoy an hour or two in the library or
at the piano, but do not like to say so.

The best rule is to make your guest feel that she is heartily welcome,
and perfectly at home.

When she is ready to leave you, see that her trunks are strapped in time
by the servants, have a carriage ready to take her to the station, have
the breakfast or dinner at an hour that will suit her, prepare a
luncheon for her to carry, and let some gentleman in the family escort
her to the wharf, check her trunks, and procure her tickets.

If your guest is in mourning, decline any invitations to parties or
places of amusement whilst she is with you. Show her by such little
attentions that you sympathize in her recent affliction, and that the
pleasure of her society, and the love you bear her, make such sacrifices
of gayety trifling, compared with the sweet duty of comforting her.


VISITING.

ETIQUETTE FOR THE GUEST.


As a first rule with regard to paying a visit, the best one is, never to
accept a _general_ invitation. Instances are very common where women (I
cannot say _ladies_) have, upon a slight acquaintance, and a "When you
are in C---- I should be very happy to have you visit me," actually gone
to C---- from their own home, and, with bag and baggage, quartered
themselves upon the hospitality of their newly made friend, for weeks at
a time.

Even where there is a long standing friendship it is not well to visit
uninvited. It is impossible for you, in another city, to know exactly
when it will be convenient for your friend to have you visit her, unless
she tells you, and that will, of course, be a special invitation.

If your friends are really desirous to have you pay them a visit, they
will name a time when it will be convenient and agreeable to have you
come, and you may accept the invitation with the certainty that you will
not incommode them.

Self-proposed visits are still worse. You, in a manner, force an
invitation from your friend when you tell her that you can come at a
certain time, unless you have previously arranged to let her know when
you can be her guest. In that case, your own time is understood to be
the most agreeable for her.

If, whilst traveling, you pass through a town where you have friends
whom you wish to visit, and who would be hurt if you omitted to do so,
go first to a hotel, and either call or send word that you are there.
Then, it is optional with them to extend their hospitality or not. Do
not be offended if it is not done. The love for you may be undiminished,
and the desire to entertain you very great, yet family reasons may
render such an invitation as you expect, impossible. Your friend may
have engagements or duties at the time, that would prevent her making
the visit pleasant for you, and wish to postpone the invitation until
she can entertain you as she wishes.

To drive, trunks and all, in such a case, to your friend's house,
without a word of warning, is unkind, as well as ill-bred. You force her
to invite you to stay, when it may be inconvenient, and, even if she is
really glad to see you, and wishes you to make a prolonged visit, you
may feel certain she would have preferred to know you were coming. If
she really loves you, her natural desire would be to have everything
ready to give you a comfortable reception, and not have to leave you,
perhaps with your traveling costume on, for an hour or two, while she
prepares a room for you. It is not enough to say, at such a time, "Don't
mind me," or, "Treat me as one of the family." However much her
politeness or love may conceal annoyance, be sure, in her secret heart
she _does_ mind you, and remember you are _not_ one of her private
family.

To take the liberty of going to the house of a mere acquaintance, for a
night or two, while traveling, without invitation, is making a
convenience of them, and wears the appearance of wishing to save the
customary hotel-bill, so, while it is extremely ill-bred and
impertinent, it is also excessively mean.

In case of relationship, or long intimate friendship, an unexpected
visit may be pardoned and give pleasure, but it is better to avoid it,
as the pleasure will surely be increased if your relative or friend has
time to prepare for your reception as her love will prompt, and arrange
her duties and engagements to really enjoy your company.

When you receive an invitation by letter to visit a friend, answer it
immediately, thanking her for her proffered hospitality, and say
decidedly then whether you can accept or decline.

If you accept the invitation, state in your letter by what train, and at
what hour you will arrive, that she may meet you, and let nothing but
positive necessity keep you from being punctually at the time and place
appointed. To linger by the way, for mere pleasure, and make her come
several times to meet you, is unkind, as well as ill-bred. If you are
unavoidably detained, write to her, state the reason that will prevent
your keeping the appointment, and name another time when you can come.

It is well in answering a letter of invitation, to state the limits of
your visit, and then to keep them. If she is unwilling to let you go,
and you are tempted to stay, that very fact promises well for the
pleasure of a second visit. It is better to leave while all will regret
you, than to linger on until you have worn out your welcome.

Inquire, as soon as possible after your arrival, what are the regular
habits of the family; the hours for rising, for meals, and for retiring,
and then be punctual in your attendance. Many ladies are very
ceremonious about waiting for a guest, and by delay in your room, or
inattention to the time, when you are out, you will keep the whole
family waiting.

If you do not wake early enough for the usual breakfast hour, request
the chambermaid to knock at your door in time for you to be ready to go
down with the family. Before you leave your room in the morning, take
the clothes off your bed, throw the upper bed over the foot-board, and
then open all the windows (unless it storms), that room and bed may be
thoroughly aired before you sit there again.

After breakfast, ask your hostess if you can be of any assistance to her
in the household duties. If she declines your services, do not follow
her from room to room whilst she is thus engaged, but take your work,
books, or music to the sitting room or parlor, until your own room is
ready for you. By thus proving that you can occupy yourself pleasantly,
while she is away, you make it less annoying to her to feel the
obligation to leave you.

As soon as you see that she is ready to sew and chat, leave your book,
or, if in your own room, come to the sitting room, where she is, and
work with her. It is polite and kind, if you see that she has a large
supply of family sewing, to offer to assist her, but if she positively
declines your aid, then have some work of your own on hand, that you may
sew with her. Many pleasant mornings may be spent while visiting, by one
lady reading aloud whilst the other sews, alternating the work.

It is a pretty compliment to repay the hospitality of your hostess, by
working whilst with her upon some piece of fancy work, a chair cover,
sofa cushion, or pair of ottomans, presenting them to her when finished,
as a keepsake. They will be duly appreciated, and remind her constantly
of the pleasures of your visit.

If you pass the morning out of the house, remember your time is hers,
and have no engagement to interfere with the plans she has laid for
entertaining you. Observe this rule during your whole visit, and do not
act independent of her plans. By constantly forming engagements without
her knowledge, going out without her, or staying in when she has made
some excursion or party for your pleasure, you insult her, by intimating
that her house is no more to you than a hotel, to sleep and eat in,
while your pleasures lie elsewhere.

After dinner, retire for an hour to your own room, that your hostess may
lie down if she is accustomed to do so. If the hours kept are later than
you have been accustomed to, or if the gayety of the family keeps you
out at party or opera, it is best to sleep after dinner, even if you do
not always do it. To give signs of weariness in the evening will be
excessively rude, implying want of enjoyment, and making your hostess
feel hurt and annoyed.

If you have shopping to do, find out where the best stores are, and then
go to them alone, unless your hostess will accompany you upon similar
business of her own. Do not tax her good nature to go, merely for the
sake of aiding you as guide. If one of the children in the family is
familiar with the stores and streets, ask her to accompany you, and be
careful to acknowledge the kindness by buying something especially for
the child whilst she is out with you, if it is only some cakes or
bonbons. Choose an hour when you are certain your hostess has made no
other engagement for you, or while she is busy in her domestic duties,
for these shopping excursions. Offer, when you are going, to attend to
any shopping she may want, and ask if there is any commission you can
execute for her while you are out.

While on a visit to one friend, do not accept too many invitations from
others, and avoid spending too much time in paying calls where your
hostess is not acquainted. You owe the greater portion of your time and
society to the lady whose hospitality you are accepting, and it is best
to decline invitations from other houses, unless they inclose one for
your hostess also.

Avoid paying any visits in a family not upon good terms with your
hostess. If such a family are very dear friends of your own, or you can
claim an acquaintance, pleasant upon both sides, with them, write, and
state candidly the reason why you cannot visit them, and they will
appreciate your delicacy.

If, while on a visit to one friend, you receive an invitation to spend
some time with another friend in the same place, accept it for the
period which you have named as the termination of your first visit. You
insult your hostess by shortening your visit to her to accept another
invitation, and quite as much of an insult is it, to take the time from
the first visit to go to pay another, and then return to your first
hostess, unless such an arrangement has been made immediately upon your
arrival.

Never invite any friend who may call upon you to stay to dinner or tea;
you will be taking a most unwarrantable liberty in so doing. This is the
right of your hostess, and if, by her silence, she tacitly declines
extending this courtesy, you will be guilty of impertinence in usurping
her privilege.

Never take any one who calls upon you into any room but the parlor,
unless invited to do so by your hostess. You have, of course, the
_entrée_ of other rooms, but you have no right to extend this privilege
to others.

If you have many gentlemen visiters, check too frequent calls, and make
no appointments with them. If they show you any such attention as to
offer to drive you to places of interest, or visit with you picture
galleries or public places, always consult your hostess before accepting
such civilities, and decline them if she has made other engagements for
you. If you receive an invitation to visit any place of public
amusement, decline it, unless one of the family with whom you are
staying is also invited. In that case you may accept. If the gentleman
who invites you is a stranger to the family, introduce him to your
hostess, or mention her name in conversation. He will then, if he
really desires you to accept his proffered attention, include her in the
invitation.

When visiting in a family where the members are in mourning, decline all
invitations to parties or places of public amusement. It is an insult to
them to leave them to join in pleasure from which their recent
affliction excludes them. Your visit at such a time will be prompted by
sympathy in their trouble, and for the time it is thoughtful and
delicate to make their sorrows yours.

If sudden sickness or family trouble come to your friend whilst you are
with her, _unless you can really be useful_, shorten your visit. In time
of trouble families generally like to be alone, all in all to each
other; and a visitor is felt a constant restraint.

If death comes while you are with your friend, endeavor to take from her
as much of the care as you can, a really sympathizing friend is an
inexpressible comfort at such a time, as the trying details which must
be taken in charge by some one, will be less trying to her than to a
member of the family. Do the necessary shopping for your friend, and
relieve her of as much family care as you can. Let her feel that you are
really glad that you are near her in her affliction, and repay the
hospitality she offered in her season of joy by showing her that her
sorrow makes her still more dear, and that, while you can enjoy the
gayety of her house, you will not flee from its mourning. When your
presence can be of no further service, then leave her.

Put out your washing and ironing when on a visit. It is annoying and
ill-bred to throw your soiled clothes into the family wash.

Take with you, from home, all the writing and sewing materials you may
require while paying your visit. It is annoying to be constantly
requested by a visitor to lend her scissors, pins, needles, or paper; no
lady should be without her own portfolio and work-box.

Be very careful not to injure any article of furniture in your sleeping
apartment, and if, unfortunately, anything suffers from your
carelessness, have the accident repaired, or the article replaced, at
your own expense.

When your visit is over, give a present to each of the servants, varying
its value, according to the length of your visit or the services you may
have required. You will add to the pleasure by presenting such gifts
yourself, with a few pleasant words.

Never compare the house you may be visiting with your own, or any other
you may visit. Avoid also speaking of any house where you may have been
a guest in terms of overpraise, giving glowing pictures of its splendor.
Your hostess may imagine you are drawing comparisons unfavorable to your
present residence. Also avoid speaking unfavorably of any former visit,
as your hostess will naturally conclude that her turn for censure will
come as soon as your visit is over.

If any family secret comes to your knowledge while you are on a visit in
that family, remember the hospitality extended to you binds you to the
most inviolable secrecy. It is mean, contemptible, rude, and ill-bred to
make your entertainers regret their hospitality by betraying any such
confidence; for it is as sacred a confidence as if you were bound over
to silence in the most solemn manner.

After paying a visit, you should write to your hostess as soon as you
reach home again; thank her in this letter for her hospitality, speak
warmly of the enjoyment you have had in your recent visit, and mention
by name every member of the family, desiring to be remembered to all.


MORNING RECEPTIONS OR CALLS.

ETIQUETTE FOR THE HOSTESS.


If your circle of visiting acquaintance is very large, while at the same
time your time is fully occupied, or your home duties make it
inconvenient to dress every morning to receive visitors, it is a good
plan to set aside one morning in the week for a reception day.

Upon your own visiting cards, below the name, put the day when it will
be proper to return the visit, thus:

  MRS. JAMES HUNTER.

  AT HOME WEDNESDAYS.

  _No. 1718 C---- st._

Your friends will, unless there is some especial reason for a call in
the interval, pay their visit upon the day named.

Let nothing, but the most imperative duty, call you out upon your
reception day. Your callers are, in a measure, invited guests, and it
will be an insulting mark of rudeness to be out when they call. Neither
can you be excused, except in case of sickness.

Having appointed the day when you will be at home to see your friends,
you must, for that day, prepare to give your time wholly to them. The
usual hours for morning receptions are from twelve to three, and you
should be dressed, and ready for callers, at least half an hour before
that time.

To come in, flushed from a hurried toilette, to meet your first callers,
is unbecoming as well as rude.

Your dress should be handsome, but not showy. A silk or cashmere
wrapper, richly trimmed, over an embroidered skirt, with a pretty cap,
or the hair neatly arranged without head-dress, is a becoming and
appropriate dress. Still better is a rich but plain silk, made high in
the neck, with long sleeves. Wear a handsomely embroidered, or lace
collar, and sleeves, and a rather dressy cap, or, still better, the hair
alone, prettily arranged.

As each visitor arrives, rise, and advance part of the way to meet her.
If gentlemen, rise, but do not advance.

It is not customary now to introduce callers at these morning
receptions, though you can do so with perfect propriety where you know
such an introduction will be agreeable to both parties.

In introducing a gentleman to a lady, address her first, as--

"Miss Jones, permit me to introduce Mr. Lee;" and, when introducing a
young lady to a matron, you introduce the younger one to the elder, as--

"Mrs. Green, allow me to introduce to you my friend, Miss Brown."

In introducing strangers in the city it is well to name the place of
their residence, as--Mr. James of Germany, or, Mr. Brown of New York,
or, if they have recently returned from abroad, it is well to say so,
as, Mr. Lee, lately from India; this is useful in starting conversation.

Be careful, when introducing your friends, to pronounce the name of each
one clearly and distinctly, that there may be no mistake or necessity
for repetition.

It is a good plan, if your receptions are usually largely attended, to
have books and pictures on the centre table, and scattered about your
parlors. You must, of course, converse with each caller, but many will
remain in the room for a long time, and these trifles are excellent
pastime, and serve as subjects for conversation.

It requires much tact to know when to introduce friends, when to take
refuge under the shield fashion offers, and not make them acquainted
with each other. It is a positive cruelty to force a talented, witty
person, to converse with one who is ignorant and dull, as they will, of
course, be obliged to do, if introduced.

A well-bred lady, who is receiving several visitors at a time, pays
equal attention to all, and attempts, as much as possible, to generalize
the conversation, turning to all in succession. The last arrival,
however, receives a little more attention at first, than the others.

If it is not agreeable to you to set aside a day for the especial
reception of callers, and you have a large circle of acquaintances, be
ready to receive them each day that you are at home.

If you are engaged, let the servant say so when she opens the door, and
do not send down that message after your friend has been admitted. If
she is told when she arrives that you are engaged, she will understand
that you are denied to _all_ callers, but if that message comes after
she has sent up her card, she may draw the inference that you will not
see _her_, though you may see other friends.

Never keep a caller waiting whilst you make an elaborate toilette. If
you are not ready for visitors, it is best to enter the parlor in your
wrapper, apologizing for it, than to keep your friend waiting whilst you
change your dress.

If a stranger calls, bringing a letter of introduction, and sends the
letter, you may read it before going down stairs, but if they wait till
you are in the parlor before presenting the letter, merely glance at the
signature and at the name of your caller; do not read the letter
through, unless it is very short, or you are requested by the bearer to
do so.

If you have a friend staying with you, invite her to join you in the
parlor when you have callers, and introduce her to your friends.

If you wish to invite a caller to stay to luncheon or dinner, give the
invitation as soon as you have exchanged greetings, not after she has
been seated for some time. In the latter case it appears like an after
thought, not, as in the former, as if from a real desire to have the
pleasure of her company.

If you have but one caller at a time, rise when she does, and accompany
her to the vestibule; but, if there are several in the room, rise when
each one does, but only accompany them to the parlor door; there take
leave of them, and return to those who still remain seated.

If, after affliction, your friends call before you are able to see them,
do not fear to give offence by declining to receive them. They will
respect your sorrow, and the call is made more to show their sympathy
than from a desire to converse with you.

Visits of condolence, paid between the death of one of your family and
the day of the funeral, you may always excuse yourself from, with
perfect propriety. They are made in kindness, and show interest, but if
you decline seeing such callers, there is no offence given.

In parting from a gentleman caller, rise when he does, and remain
standing until he leaves the room, but do not go towards the door.

When a gentleman calls in the morning he will not remove his outside
coat, and will hold his hat in his hand. Never offer to take the latter,
and do not invite him to remove his coat. Take no notice of either one
or the other.

If strangers in the city call upon you, enquire at what hotel they are
staying, and how long they will be there, that you may return their call
before they leave town.


MORNING RECEPTIONS OR CALLS.

ETIQUETTE FOR THE CALLER.


The usual hours for paying morning calls are between eleven and two, or
twelve and three, and all calls of ceremony should be made between these
hours.

Never, in paying a ceremonious call, stay more than twenty minutes, or
less than ten. If your hostess has several other visitors at the same
time that you are in her parlor, make your visit short, that she may
have more attention to bestow upon others.

After you have received an invitation to a party, call within a week or
fortnight after the evening, whether you have accepted or declined the
invitation. If you have declined on account of mourning, the excuse
extends also to the call.

When the servant answers your ring, hand in your card. If your friend is
out or engaged, leave the card, and if she is in, send it up. Never call
without cards. You may offend your friend, as she may never hear of your
call, if she is out at the time, and you trust to the memory of the
servant.

If your friend is at home, after sending your card up to her by the
servant, go into the parlor to wait for her. Sit down quietly, and do
not leave your seat until you rise to meet her as she enters the room.
To walk about the parlor, examining the ornaments and pictures, is
ill-bred. It is still more unlady-like to sit down and turn over to read
the cards in her card basket. If she keeps you waiting for a long time,
you may take a book from the centre-table to pass away the interval.

Never, while waiting in a friend's parlor, go to the piano and play till
she comes. This is a breach of good-breeding often committed, and
nothing can be more ill-bred. You may be disturbing an invalid unawares,
or you may prevent your friend, if she has children, from coming down
stairs at all, by waking the baby.

If you are a stranger in the city, and bring a letter of introduction to
your hostess, send this letter up stairs with your card, that she may
read it, and know how to welcome you when she comes down stairs. In this
case, write upon the card the name of the hotel at which you are
staying, and mention in the course of conversation, how long you will be
in the city.

If you have a visitor, and desire to introduce her to your friends, you
may invite her to accompany you when paying calls.

In making a call for condolence, it is sufficient to leave a card with
your enquiries for the health of your friend, and offers of service. The
same if calling upon invalids, if they are too ill to see you.

In visits of congratulation, go in, and be hearty in your expressions of
interest and sympathy. Pay visits, both of condolence and
congratulation, within a week after the event which calls for them
occurs.

It is proper, when you have already made your call of the usual length,
and another caller is announced, to rise and leave, not immediately, as
if you shunned the new arrival, but after a moment or two. Never out-sit
two or three parties of visitors, unless you have private business with
your hostess which cannot be postponed. Many denounce the system of
morning calls as silly, frivolous, and a waste of time. They are wrong.
It may be carried to an excess, and so admit of these objections, but in
moderation the custom is a good and pleasant one. You have then an
opportunity of making friends of mere acquaintances, and you can, in a
pleasant chat with a friend at home, have more real enjoyment in her
society than in a dozen meetings in large companies, with all the
formality and restraint of a party thrown around you. There are many
subjects of conversation which are pleasant in a parlor, tête-à-tête
with a friend, which you would not care to discuss in a crowded saloon,
or in the street. Personal inquiries, private affairs can be cosily
chatted over.

In paying your visits of condolence, show, by your own quiet gravity,
that you sympathize in the recent affliction of your friend. Though you
may endeavor to comfort and cheer her, you must avoid a gay or careless
air, as it will be an insult at such a time. Avoid any allusion to the
past that may be trying for her to hear or answer, yet do not ignore the
subject entirely, as that appears like a want of interest in it. Though
you may feel happy, avoid parading your own joyousness at such a time;
whatever your own feeling may be, respect the sorrow of another.

Never sit gazing curiously around the room when paying a call, as if
taking a mental inventory of the furniture. It is excessively rude. It
is still worse to appear to notice any disorder or irregularity that may
occur.

If, while paying a call, you perceive that any unforeseen matter in the
family, calls for the attention of the lady of the house, leave
instantly, no matter how short your call has been. Your friend may not
appear to notice the screams of a child, a noise in the kitchen, or the
cry from the nursery that the fire board has caught fire, but you may be
sure she does hear it, and though too well-bred to speak of it, will
heartily rejoice to say good-bye.

Do not take a child with you to pay calls, until it is old enough to
behave quietly and with propriety. To have a troublesome child
constantly touching the parlor ornaments, balancing itself on the back
of a chair, leaning from a window, or performing any of the thousand
tricks in which children excel, is an annoyance, both to yourself and
your hostess.

Make no remark upon the temperature of the room, or its arrangement,
when you enter it. Never open or shut a window or door without asking
permission, and unless really suffering from excessive heat or cold,
refrain from asking leave to take this liberty.

If you are invited to go up stairs to your friend's private apartment,
you will, of course, accept the invitation, but never go up stairs
uninvited. When you reach her door, if the servant has not preceded and
announced you, knock, and await her invitation to enter. Then, once in,
take no notice of the room, but go instantly to your friend. If she is
sewing, do not speak of the nature of her work, but request her to
continue, as if you were not present.

In cases of long standing friendship, you will not, of course, stand
upon the ceremony of waiting for each and every one of your calls to be
returned before paying another, but be careful that you are not too
lavish of your visits. The most cordial welcome may be worn threadbare,
if it is called into use _too_ often.

If you are visiting an invalid, or one confined by physical infirmity to
one apartment, while you are cheerful and ready to impart all the news
that will interest them, do not, by too glowing descriptions of out-door
pleasures, make them feel more keenly their own deprivations. It is
well, when making such calls, to converse upon literature, or such
general subjects as will not remind them of their misfortune.

In cases where, from long illness or other infirmity, a gentleman friend
is confined entirely to his room, you may, with perfect propriety, call
upon him. It is both polite and kind to do so, as otherwise he would be
deprived entirely of the society of his lady friends. Many thus
unfortunately situated, from study and reading while so shut out from
the world, become the most delightful companions.

If, when you make a call, you unfortunately intrude upon an early dinner
hour, do not go in, but leave your card, and say that you will call
again.

If you call upon two ladies who are boarding at the same house, do not
send up your card to both at the same time. If one is out, send a card
to her room, and then send up for the other. If the first one is in,
wait till she comes down, and then chat as long as a call usually lasts.
When you rise as if to take leave, accompany your friend to the parlor
door, then tell her that you are going to send up for your other friend.
She will bid you good-morning, and go to her own room; ring the bell
after she leaves you, and send your card by the waiter to your other
friend.

In calling at a hotel, enter by the ladies' door, and send your card to
the room of your friend by the waiter. It is well, if you are calling
upon an entire stranger, to choose a seat, and tell the waiter to say to
the lady exactly where she will find you. She will probably enter with
your card in her hand; then rise, greet her by name, and introduce
yourself. If you speak to another stranger upon the same errand as the
one you expect, the error will be instantly perceived by the difference
in name. If a stranger, bringing a letter of introduction, sends the
letter with her card, instead of calling, courtesy requires you to make
the first call, immediately; the same day that you receive the letter,
if possible, if not, the day after.


DINNER COMPANY.

ETIQUETTE FOR THE HOSTESS.


In issuing invitations for a large dinner party, the usual form is--

   _Mr. and Mrs. G---- request the favor of Mr. and Mrs. L----'s
   company to dinner, on Wednesday, March 8th, at ---- o'clock._

If your husband is giving a party to gentlemen only, he will have a card
printed or written for the occasion, but your duties as hostess, if he
wishes you to preside, will still be as arduous as if your own friends
were included in the invitation.

The directions given in the chapter on "Evening parties" for the
arrangement of the parlor and the dressing-rooms, will apply here
equally well, but the dining-room (in this case the centre of
attraction) requires still more careful attention. Any fault here will
mar your own comfort and the pleasure of your guests, and must be
carefully avoided.

Send out your invitations by a servant, or man hired for the purpose;
do not trust them to despatch or penny post.

Be careful in selecting the guests for a dinner party. Remember that
conversation will be the sole entertainment for several hours, and if
your guests are not well chosen, your dinner, no matter how perfect or
costly the viands, will prove a failure. The most agreeable dinners are
those whose numbers will allow all the guests to join in a common
conversation, and where the host has spirit and intelligence to take the
lead, and start a new subject when the interest in the old one begins to
flag. Dinners where the guests depend entirely upon the person next them
for conversation, are apt to be stupid, as it requires marvelous tact to
pair off all the couples, so that every one will be entertaining in
tête-à-tête conversation.

To give a good dinner, your means, room, and establishment must all be
taken into consideration when you are preparing for a dinner company. If
you invite a large number, you must increase your establishment for the
occasion, as to sit down to a dinner badly served, with a scarcity of
waiters, is tiresome, and shows little tact or grace on the part of the
hostess.

One cook cannot prepare dinner properly for more than ten persons, and
three waiters will find ample employment in waiting upon the same
number. More than this number will require a table too large for
general, easy conversation, and throw your company into couples or
trios, for entertainment.

Have your table spread in a room that will accommodate all the guests
comfortably, at the same time avoid putting a small social party in a
large room, where they will appear lost in the space around them. Let
the room be comfortably warmed, and if your dinner is late, have the
apartments well lighted. If you sit down by daylight, but will remain in
the room until after dark, have the shutters closed and the lights lit,
before the dinner is announced, as nothing can be more awkward than to
do this in the middle of the meal.

The shape of a table is a point of more importance than some people
think. If you wish your dinner to be social--not a mere collection of
tête-à-têtes--the table should be of a shape which will make it easy for
each guest to address any one at the table. The long parallelogram, with
the host at one end and the hostess at the other, is stiff, too broad,
too long, and isolates the givers of the feast from the guests.

The round table, if large enough to accommodate many guests, has too
large a diameter each way for easy conversation. The best table is the
oval, and the host and hostess should sit in the middle of each side,
facing each other.

The dining room, even in the heat of summer, should be carpeted, to
deaden the noise of the servants' feet. The chairs should be easy,
without arms, and with tall, slanting backs. It adds much to the
comfort, if each person is provided with a foot-stool.

You must have, besides the waiters, one servant to carve, and he must be
an adept. No dish should be carved upon the table, and that no guest
shall wait too long for his meat, you must engage a rapid and dexterous
carver.

For a party of ten, two waiters, and the carver, are amply sufficient.
If you have too many servants, they will only interfere with each other,
and stand staring at the guests. Give your orders before dinner, and
through the meal never speak to the servants. Your whole attention must
be given to the guests. Even if you see that matters are going wrong, do
not let your annoyance appear, but gracefully ignore the painful facts.
Let each servant have his regular position at the table. One should take
the guests at the right of the hostess, and the left of the host; the
other the guests on the other side. They should wear light, noiseless
shoes, and white gloves, and each one carry a folded napkin over his
right arm.

The main point in the arrangement of the table itself, is to secure
beauty, without interfering with conversation. The table cover and
napkins must be of snowy damask, the glass clear as crystal, and taste
must preside over each detail. Let nothing high be placed on the table,
that will effectually separate the guests from each other. There should
be, first, a handsome centre piece, and this may be of glass, silver, or
china, and not too high or large, and must be elegant as a work of art,
or it is better omitted altogether. Preserve or fruit stands, tastefully
decorated, with the fruit on fresh, green leaves, and flowers mingled
with them, form exquisite centre pieces. A pyramid of flowers, or tasty
vase or basket, forms, too, a beautiful ornament for the centre of the
table. In addition to this, the French scatter vases of flowers all over
the table, at the corners and in the centre. Some place a small,
fragrant bouquet before the plate of each guest. Nothing can be more
beautiful than this arrangement. Glasses of celery, dishes of clear,
transparent jellies or preserves, exquisite little glass plates of
pickles should stand in order on the table.

Place before each guest, the plate, knife, fork, spoon, four
wine-glasses of various sizes, the goblet for water, napkin, small salt
cellar, salt spoon, and roll of bread. Place none of the meats or
vegetables upon the large table. These should all be served at a
side-table, each guest selecting his own, to be handed by the servants.
The first course is soup. As this is not meant to destroy the appetite
for other viands, it should be light, not too rich or thick. Let the
servant hand one ladlefull to each person. If you have more than one
kind, he must first inquire which each guest prefers.

If you have wines, let them be handed round after the soup.

Next comes the fish. If you have large fish, let a slice, cut smoothly,
not made into a hash by awkward carving, be placed upon the plate of the
guest, with a slice of egg, and drawn butter. If the fish are small, one
should be placed upon each plate.

Then come the patties of oysters, minced veal, or lobster; or, instead
of these, you may have poultry or game.

Next the roast. With the meats have vegetables served on a separate
plate, that the guest may take as much as he wishes with meat. You will,
of course, have a variety of vegetables, but scarcely any guest will
choose more than two.

The pastry and puddings come next in order, and these, too, are better
served from a side table. Between the pastry and the dessert, have
salad and cheese placed before each guest.

If you eat dessert in the same room that you dine in, it should be
placed upon the table (with the exception of the ices) before the guests
are seated, and this comes after the pastry has been discussed. It
should consist of fruit and ices.

A pleasanter and more elegant way, is to have the fruit and ices spread
in a separate room, and leave the dining room after the pastry has been
eaten. The change of position, the absence of the meat flavor in the
atmosphere, make the dessert much more delightful than if it is eaten in
the same room as the dinner. In summer especially, the change to a cool,
fresh room, where the ices and fruits are tastefully spread, and flowers
are scattered profusely about the room, delights every sense.

Coffee follows the dessert, and when this enters, if your guests are
gentlemen only, your duty is at an end. You may then rise, leave the
room, and need not re-appear. If you have lady guests, you give the
signal for rising after coffee, and lead the way to the parlor, where,
in a few moments, the gentlemen will again join you.

Suppose your guests invited, servants instructed, every arrangement
made, and the important day arrived. The next point to consider is the
reception of your guests. Be dressed in good season, as many seem to
consider an invitation to dinner as one to pass the day, and come early.
Take a position in your drawing-room, where each guest will find you
easily, and remain near it, until every guest has arrived. As each one
enters, advance to meet him, and extend your hand.

Have plenty of chairs ready in the drawing-room, as an invitation to
dinner by no means argues a "stand up" party. As you have already
arranged every detail, your duty as hostess consists in receiving your
guests gracefully, conversing and looking as charmingly as possible.
Flowers in the drawing-room are as great a proof of taste as in the
dining room.

As the time just before dinner is very apt to be tiresome, you should
bring forward all the armor against stupidity that you possess. Display
upon tables arranged conveniently about the room, curiosities, handsome
books, photographs, engravings, stereoscopes, medallions, any works of
art you may own, and have the ottomans, sofas, and chairs so placed that
your guests can move easily about the room, or rooms.

The severest test of good breeding in a lady, is in the position of
hostess, receiving dinner guests. Your guests may arrive all at once,
yet you must make each one feel that he or she is the object of your
individual attention, and none must be hurt by neglect. They may arrive
very early, yet your duty is to make the time fly until dinner is
announced. They may come late, and risk the ruin of your choicest
dishes, yet you must not, upon pain of a breach of etiquette, show the
least annoyance. If you know that the whole kitchen is in arms at the
delay, you must conceal the anguish, as the Spartan boy did his pangs,
to turn a cheerful, smiling face upon the tardy guests.

When dinner is announced, you will lead the way to the dining-room upon
the arm of one of your gentlemen guests, having paired off the company
in couples. The host comes in last with a lady upon his arm.

You may indicate to each couple, as they enter the dining-room, the
seats they are to occupy, standing until all are seated, or you may
allow them to choose their own places. The English fashion of placing a
card upon each plate with the name of the person to take that seat upon
it, is a good one. It enables the hostess to place those whom she is
certain will be mutually entertaining, next each other. Place the
gentleman who escorts you from the parlor at your right hand.

Having once taken your seat at table, you have nothing to do with the
dinner but to partake of it. Not a word, or even a glance, will a
well-bred hostess bestow upon the servants, nor will she speak to the
guests of the dishes. Their choice rests between themselves and the
waiters, and you must take no notice of what they eat, how much, or how
little. Nay, should they partake of one dish only, you must ignore the
fact.

The greatest tact is displayed where the hostess makes each guest feel
perfectly at ease. She will aid her husband both in leading and
supporting the conversation, and will see that no guest is left in
silence from want of attention. Whilst she ignores every breach of
etiquette her guests may commit, she must carefully observe every rule
herself, and this she must do in an easy, natural manner, avoiding every
appearance of restraint. Her deportment, she may be sure, is secretly
watched and criticised by each guest, yet she must appear utterly
unconscious that she is occupying any conspicuous position.

To watch the servants, or appear uneasy, lest something should go wrong,
is excessively ill-bred, and if any accident does occur, you only make
it worse by noticing it. To reprove or speak sharply to a servant before
your guests, manifests a shocking want of good breeding.

The rules given above are only applicable to large dinner parties, and
where the guests are few, and the host himself carves, these rules will
not apply. In this case, as you will only require the services of your
own household domestics, you must, of course, attend personally to the
wants of your guests.

Dinner not being served from a side table, you must, while putting
tasteful ornaments upon it, be careful not to crowd them, and leave room
for the substantial dishes.

You must watch the plate of each guest, to see that it is well provided,
and you will invite each one to partake of the various dishes.

Have a servant to pass the plates from you to each guest, and from the
host to you, after he has put the meat upon them, that you may add gravy
and vegetables before they are set before your visitors.

At these smaller dinner companies, avoid apologizing for anything,
either in the viands or the arrangement of them. You have provided the
best your purse will allow, prepared as faultlessly as possible; you
will only gain credit for mock modesty if you apologize for a
well-prepared, well-spread dinner, and if there are faults they will
only be made more conspicuous if attention is drawn to them by an
apology.

Ease of manner, quiet dignity, cheerful, intelligent conversation, and
gentle, lady-like deportment, never appear more charming than when they
adorn a lady at the head of her own table.

DINNER COMPANY.

ETIQUETTE FOR THE GUEST.


When you receive an invitation to join a dinner-party, answer it
immediately, as, by leaving your hostess in doubt whether you intend to
accept or decline her hospitality, you make it impossible for her to
decide how many she must prepare for. If you accept at first, and any
unforeseen event keeps you from fulfilling your engagement, write a
second note, that your hostess may not wait dinner for you. Such a note,
if circumstances render it necessary to write it, may be sent with
perfect propriety an hour before the time appointed for dinner, though,
if you are aware that you cannot attend, earlier, you must send the
information in good season.

You should enter the house of your hostess from a quarter to half an
hour earlier than the time appointed for dining. Proceed at once to the
dressing-room, and arrange your dress and hair, and then enter the
drawing-room. By going to the house too early, you may hasten or
interrupt the toilet arrangements of your hostess; while, by being
late, you will establish a most disagreeable association in the minds of
all present, as "the lady who kept dinner waiting at Mrs. L----'s."

Immediately upon entering the parlor find your hostess, and speak to her
first. It is very rude to stop to chat with other guests before greeting
the lady of the house. You may bow to any one you know, in passing, but
do not stop to speak. Having exchanged a few words with your hostess,
turn to the other guests, unless you are the first arrival. In that
case, converse with your host and hostess until others come in.

Be careful, if dinner is delayed by the tardiness of the guests, or from
any other cause, that you do not show by your manner that you are aware
of such delay. To look towards the door often, consult your watch, or
give tokens of weariness, are all marks of ill-breeding. Your hostess
will probably be sufficiently annoyed by the irregularity itself; do not
add to her discomfort by allowing her to suppose that her guests
perceive the deficiencies. Look over the books and pictures with an air
of interest, converse cheerfully, and in every way appear as if dinner
were a matter of secondary importance, (as, indeed, it should be,)
compared with the pleasure of the society around you.

When the signal for dinner is given, your hostess will probably name
your escort to the table. If he is a stranger, bow in acknowledgement of
the introduction, take his arm, and fall into your place in the stream
of guests passing from the parlor to the dining-room.

Take the seat pointed out by your hostess, or the waiter, as soon as it
is offered. Each one will do this upon entering, and it prevents the
confusion that will result if those first entering the room, remain
standing until all the other guests come in.

When you take your seat, be careful that your chair does not stand upon
the dress of the lady next you, as she may not rise at the same instant
that you do, and so you risk tearing her dress.

Sit gracefully at the table; neither so close as to make your movements
awkward, nor so far away as to drag your food over your dress before it
reaches your mouth. It is well to carry in your pocket a small
pincushion, and, having unfolded your napkin, to pin it at the belt. You
may do this quietly, without its being perceived, and you will thus
really save your dress. If the napkin is merely laid open upon your lap,
it will be very apt to slip down, if your dress is of silk or satin, and
you risk the chance of appearing again in the drawing-room with the
front of your dress soiled or greased.

If, by the carelessness or awkwardness of your neighbors or the
servants, you have a plate of soup, glass of wine, or any dish intended
for your mouth, deposited upon your dress, do not spring up, or make any
exclamation. You may wipe off the worst of the spot with your napkin,
and then let it pass without further notice. If an apology is made by
the unlucky perpetrator of the accident, try to set him at his ease by
your own lady-like composure. He will feel sorry and awkward enough,
without reproach, sullenness, or cold looks from you.

Gloves and mittens are no longer worn at table, even at the largest
dinner-parties.

To make remarks upon the guests or the dishes is excessively rude.

If the conversation is general, speak loudly enough to be heard by those
around you, but, at the same time, avoid raising your voice _too_ much.
If the company is very large, and you converse only with the person
immediately beside you, speak in a distinct, but low tone, that you may
not interrupt other couples, but carefully avoid whispering or a
confidential air. Both are in excessively bad taste. To laugh in a
suppressed way, has the appearance of laughing at those around you, and
a loud, boisterous laugh is always unlady-like. Converse cheerfully,
laugh quietly, but freely, if you will, and while you confine your
attention entirely to your neighbor, still avoid any air of secrecy or
mystery.

Never use an eye-glass, either to look at the persons around you or the
articles upon the table.

Eat your soup quietly. To make any noise in eating it, is simply
disgusting. Do not break bread into your soup. Break off small pieces
and put into your mouth, if you will, but neither bite it from the roll
nor break it up, and eat it from your soup-plate with a spoon.

In eating bread with meat, never dip it into the gravy on your plate,
and then bite the end off. If you wish to eat it with gravy, break off a
small piece, put it upon your plate, and then, with a fork, convey it to
your mouth.

When helped to fish, remove, with knife and fork, all the bones, then
lay down the knife, and, with a piece of bread in your left hand and a
fork in your right, eat the flakes of fish.

Need I say that the knife is to cut your food with, and must never be
used while eating? To put it in your mouth is a distinctive mark of
low-breeding.

If you have selected what you will eat, keep the plate that is placed
before you; never pass it to the persons next you, as they may have an
entirely different choice of meat or vegetables.

Never attempt to touch any dish that is upon the table, but out of your
reach, by stretching out your arms, leaning forward, or, still worse,
standing up. Ask the waiter to hand it, if you wish for it; or, if the
gentleman beside you can easily do so, you may ask him to pass it to
you.

Do not press those near you to take more or other things than are upon
their plate. This is the duty of the hostess, or, if the company is
large, the servants will attend to it. For you to do so is officious and
ill-bred.

When conversing let your knife and fork rest easily upon your plate,
even if still in your hand. Avoid holding them upright. Keep your own
knife, fork, and spoon solely for the articles upon your own plate. To
use them for helping yourself to butter or salt, is rude in the extreme.

When you do not use the salt-spoon, sugar tongs, and butter-knife, you
may be sure that those around you will conclude that you have never seen
the articles, and do not know their use.

You need not fear to offend by refusing to take wine with a gentleman,
even your host. If you decline gracefully, he will appreciate the
delicacy which makes you refuse. If, however, you have no conscientious
scruples, and are invited to take wine, bow, and merely raise the glass
to your lips, then set it down again. You may thus acknowledge the
courtesy, and yet avoid actually drinking the wine.

No lady should drink wine at dinner. Even if her head is strong enough
to bear it, she will find her cheeks, soon after the indulgence,
flushed, hot, and uncomfortable; and if the room is warm, and the dinner
a long one, she will probably pay the penalty of her folly, by having a
headache all the evening.

If offered any dish of which you do not wish to partake, decline it, but
do not assign any reason. To object to the dish itself is an insult to
your entertainers, and if you assert any reason for your own dislike it
is ill-bred.

Do not bend too much forward over your food, and converse easily. To eat
fast, or appear to be so much engrossed as to be unable to converse, is
ill-bred; and it makes those around you suspect that you are so little
accustomed to dining well, that you fear to stop eating an instant, lest
you should not get enough.

It is equally ill-bred to accept every thing that is offered to you.
Never take more than two vegetables; do not take a second plate of soup,
pastry, or pudding. Indeed, it is best to accept but _one_ plate of any
article.

Never use a spoon for anything but liquids, and never touch anything to
eat, excepting bread, celery, or fruit, with your fingers.

In the intervals which must occur between the courses, do not appear to
be conscious of the lapse of time. Wear a careless air when waiting,
conversing cheerfully and pleasantly, and avoid looking round the room,
as if wondering what the waiters are about.

Never eat every morsel that is upon your plate; and surely no lady will
ever scrape her plate, or pass the bread round it, as if to save the
servants the trouble of washing it.

Take such small mouthfulls that you can always be ready for
conversation, but avoid playing with your food, or partaking of it with
an affectation of delicate appetite. Your hostess may suppose you
despise her fare, if you appear so very choice, or eat too sparingly. If
your state of health deprives you of appetite, it is bad enough for you
to decline the invitation to dine out.

Never examine minutely the food before you. You insult your hostess by
such a proceeding, as it looks as if you feared to find something upon
the plate that should not be there.

If you find a worm on opening a nut, or in any of the fruit, hand your
plate quietly, and without remark, to the waiter, and request him to
bring you a clean one. Do not let others perceive the movement, or the
cause of it, if you can avoid so doing.

Never make a noise in eating. To munch or smack the lips are vulgar
faults.

Sit quietly at table, avoid stiffness, but, at the same time, be careful
that you do not annoy others by your restlessness.

Do not eat so fast as to be done long before others, nor so slowly as to
keep them waiting.

When the finger-glasses are passed round, dip the ends of your fingers
into them, and wipe them upon your napkin; then do not fold your napkin,
but place it beside your plate upon the table.

To carry away fruit or bonbons from the table is a sign of low breeding.

Rise with the other ladies when your hostess gives the signal.

After returning to the parlor, remain in the house at least an hour
after dinner is over. If you have another engagement in the evening, you
may then take your leave, but not before. You will insult your hostess
by leaving sooner, as it appears that you came only for the dinner, and
that being over, your interest in the house, for the time, has ceased.
It is only beggars who "eat and run!"



TABLE ETIQUETTE.


In order to appear perfectly well-bred at table when in company, or in
public, as at a hotel, you must pay attention, three times a day, to the
points of table etiquette. If you neglect these little details at home
and in private, they will be performed awkwardly and with an air of
restraint when you are in company. By making them habitual, they will
become natural, and appear easily, and sit gracefully upon you.

Even when eating entirely alone, observe these little details, thus
making the most finished and elegant manners perfectly familiar, and
thus avoiding the stiff, awkward air you will wear if you keep your
politeness only for company, when you will be constantly apprehensive of
doing wrong.

At breakfast or tea, if your seat is at the head of the table, you must,
before taking anything upon your own plate, fill a cup for each one of
the family, and pass them round, being careful to suit each one in the
preparation of the cup, that none may return to you for more tea, water,
sugar, or milk. If you have a visitor, pass the cup with the tea or
coffee alone in it, and hand with the cup the sugar bowl and cream
pitcher, that these may be added in the quantity preferred.

After all the cups have been filled and passed round, you may take the
bread, butter, and other food upon your own plate. Train your children,
so that they will pass these things to you as soon as they see you are
ready to receive them.

If you are yourself at the side of the table, pass the bread, butter,
etc., to the lady at the head, when you see that she has sent the cups
from the waiter before her, to those seated at the table.

If you occupy the place of head of the table, you must watch the cups,
offer to fill them when empty, and also see that each one of the family
is well helped to the other articles upon the table.

Avoid making any noise in eating, even if each meal is eaten in solitary
state. It is a disgusting habit, and one not easily cured if once
contracted, to make any noise with the lips when eating.

Never put large pieces of food into your mouth. Eat slowly, and cut your
food into small pieces before putting it into your mouth.

Use your fork, or spoon, never your knife, to put your food into your
mouth. At dinner, hold in your left hand a piece of bread, and raise
your meat or vegetables with the fork, holding the bread to prevent the
pieces slipping from the plate.

If you are asked at table what part of the meat you prefer, name your
favorite piece, but do not give such information unless asked to do so.
To point out any especial part of a dish, and ask for it, is ill-bred.
To answer, when asked to select a part, that "it is a matter of
indifference," or, "I can eat any part," is annoying to the carver, as
he cares less than yourself certainly, and would prefer to give you the
piece you really like best.

Do not pour coffee or tea from your cup into your saucer, and do not
blow either these or soup. Wait until they cool.

Use the butter-knife, salt-spoon, and sugar-tongs as scrupulously when
alone, as if a room full of people were watching you. Otherwise, you may
neglect to do so when the omission will mortify you.

Never put poultry or fish bones, or the stones of fruit, upon the
table-cloth, but place them on the edge of your plate.

Do not begin to eat until others at the table are ready to commence too.

Sit easily in your chair, neither too near the table, nor too far from
it, and avoid such tricks as putting your arms on the table, leaning
back lazily in your chair, or playing with your knife, fork, or spoon.

Never raise your voice, when speaking, any higher than is necessary. The
clear articulation and distinct pronunciation of each word, will make a
low tone more agreeable and more easily understood, than the loudest
tone, if the speech is rapid or indistinct.

Never pass your plate with the knife or fork upon it, and when you pass
your cup, put the spoon in the saucer.

Never pile up the food on your plate. It looks as if you feared it would
all be gone before you could be helped again, and it will certainly
make your attempts to cut the food awkward, if your plate is crowded.

If there is a delicacy upon the table, partake of it sparingly, and
never help yourself to it a second time.

If you wish to cough, or use your handkerchief, rise from the table, and
leave the room. If you have not time to do this, cover your mouth, and
turn your head aside from the table, and perform the disagreeable
necessity as rapidly and quietly as possible.

Avoid gesticulation at the table. Indeed, a well-bred lady will never
gesticulate, but converse quietly, letting the expression and animation
of her features give force to her words.

Never, when at the home table, leave it until the other members of the
family are also ready to rise.


CONDUCT IN THE STREET.


A lady's conduct is never so entirely at the mercy of critics, because
never so public, as when she is in the street. Her dress, carriage,
walk, will all be exposed to notice; every passer-by will look at her,
if it is only for one glance; every unlady-like action will be marked;
and in no position will a dignified, lady-like deportment be more
certain to command respect.

Let me start with you upon your promenade, my friend, and I will soon
decide your place upon the list of well-bred ladies.

First, your dress. Not that scarlet shawl, with a green dress, I beg,
and--oh! spare my nerves!--you are not so insane as to put on a blue
bonnet. That's right. If you wish to wear the green dress, don a black
shawl, and--that white bonnet will do very well. One rule you must lay
down with regard to a walking dress. It must never be conspicuous. Let
the material be rich, if you will; the set of each garment faultless;
have collar and sleeves snowy white, and wear neatly-fitting, whole,
clean gloves and boots. Every detail may be scrupulously attended to,
but let the whole effect be quiet and modest. Wear a little of one
bright color, if you will, but not more than one. Let each part of the
dress harmonize with all the rest; avoid the _extreme_ of fashion, and
let the dress suit _you_. If you are short and plump, do not wear
flounces, because they are fashionable, and avoid large plaids, even if
they are the very latest style. If tall and slight, do not add to the
length of your figure by long stripes, a little mantilla, and a
caricature of a bonnet, with long, streaming ribbons. A large, round
face will never look well, staring from a tiny, delicate bonnet; nor
will a long, thin one stand the test much better. Wear what is becoming
to _yourself_, and only bow to fashion enough to avoid eccentricity. To
have everything in the _extreme_ of fashion, is a sure mark of
vulgarity.

Wear no jewelry in the street excepting your watch and brooch. Jewelry
is only suited for full evening dress, when all the other details unite
to set it off. If it is real, it is too valuable to risk losing in the
street, and if it is _not_ real, no lady should wear it. Mock jewelry is
utterly detestable.

What are you doing? Sucking the head of your parasol! Have you not
breakfasted? Take that piece of ivory from your mouth! To suck it is
unlady-like, and let me tell you, excessively unbecoming. Rosy lips and
pearly teeth can be put to a better use.

Why did you not dress before you came out? It is a mark of ill-breeding
to draw your gloves on in the street. Now your bonnet-strings, and
now--your collar! Pray arrange your dress before you leave the house!
Nothing looks worse than to see a lady fussing over her dress in the
street. Take a few moments more in your dressing-room, and so arrange
your dress that you will not need to think of it again whilst you are
out.

Do not walk so fast! you are not chasing anybody! Walk slowly,
gracefully! Oh, do not drag one foot after the other as if you were fast
asleep--set down the foot lightly, but at the same time firmly; now,
carry your head up, not so; you hang it down as if you feared to look
any one in the face! Nay, that is the other extreme! Now you look like a
drill-major, on parade! So! that is the medium. Erect, yet, at the same
time, easy and elegant.

Now, my friend, do not swing your arms. You don't know what to do with
them? Your parasol takes one hand; hold your dress up a little with the
other. Not so! No lady should raise her dress above the ankle.

Take care! don't drag your dress through that mud-puddle! Worse and
worse! If you take hold of your dress on both sides, in that way, and
drag it up so high, you will be set down as a raw country girl. So.
Raise it just above the boot, all round, easily, letting it fall again
in the old folds. Don't shake it down; it will fall back of itself.

Stop! don't you see there is a carriage coming? Do you want to be thrown
down by the horses? You can run across? Very lady-like indeed! Surely
nothing can be more ungraceful than to see a lady shuffle and run across
a street. Wait until the way is clear and then walk slowly across.

Do not try to raise your skirts. It is better to soil them. (You were
very foolish to wear white skirts this muddy day.) _They_ are easily
washed, and you cannot raise _all_. You will surely be awkward in making
the attempt, and probably fail, in spite of your efforts. True, they
will be badly soiled, and you expose this when you raise the dress, but
the state of the streets must be seen by all who see your share of the
dirt, and they will apologize for your untidy appearance in a language
distinctly understood.

Don't hold your parasol so close to your face, nor so low down. You
cannot see your way clear, and you will run against somebody. Always
hold an umbrella or parasol so that it will clear your bonnet, and leave
the space before your face open, that you may see your way clearly.

If you are ever caught in a shower, and meet a gentleman friend who
offers an umbrella, accept it, if he will accompany you to your
destination; but do not deprive him of it, if he is not able to join
you. Should he insist, return it to his house or store the instant you
reach home, with a note of thanks. If a stranger offers you the same
services, decline it positively, but courteously, at the same time
thanking him.

Never stop to speak to a gentleman in the street. If you have anything
important to say to him, allow him to join and walk with you, but do not
stop. It is best to follow the same rule with regard to ladies, and
either walk with them or invite them to walk with you, instead of
stopping to talk.

A lady who desires to pay strict regard to etiquette, will not stop to
gaze in at the shop windows. It looks countrified. If she is alone, it
looks as if she were waiting for some one; and if she is not alone, she
is victimizing some one else, to satisfy her curiosity.

Remember that in meeting your gentlemen friends it is your duty to speak
first, therefore do not cut them by waiting to be recognized. Be sure,
however, that they see you before you bow, or you place yourself in the
awkward position of having your bow pass, unreturned.

You are not expected to recognize any friend on the opposite side of the
street. Even if you see them, do not bow.

Avoid "cutting" any one. It is a small way of showing spite, and lowers
you more than your enemy. If you wish to avoid any further intercourse
bow, coldly and gravely, but do not look at any one, to whom you are in
the habit of bowing, and pass without bowing. If you do this, they may
flatter themselves that they were really unrecognized, but a distant,
cold bow will show them that you speak from civility only, not from
friendship.

In the street a lady takes the arm of a relative, her affianced lover,
or husband, but of no other gentleman, unless the streets are slippery,
or in the evening.

When a lady walks with two gentlemen, she should endeavor to divide her
attention and remarks equally between them.

If you do stop in the street, draw near the walls, that you may not keep
others from passing.

Loud talking and laughing in the street are excessively vulgar. Not only
this, but they expose a lady to the most severe misconstruction. Let
your conduct be modest and quiet.

If a gentleman, although a stranger, offers his hand to assist you in
leaving a carriage, omnibus, or to aid you in crossing where it is wet
or muddy, accept his civility, thank him, bow and pass on.

If you wish to take an omnibus or car, see that it is not already full.
If it is, do not get in. You will annoy others, and be uncomfortable
yourself.

It is best to carry change to pay car or omnibus fare, as you keep
others waiting whilst the driver is making change, and it is apt to fall
into the straw when passing from one hand to another.

If a gentleman gives you his seat, hands your fare, or offers you any
such attention, _thank him_. It is not countrified, it is lady-like. If
you do not speak, bow.

Be careful not to be alone in the streets after night fall. It exposes
you to insult. If you are obliged to go out, have a servant, or another
lady, if you cannot procure the escort of a gentleman, which is, of
course, the best.

Walk slowly, do not turn your head to the right or left, unless you wish
to walk that way, and avoid any gesture or word that will attract
attention.

Never look back! It is excessively ill-bred.

Make no remarks upon those who pass you, while there is even a
possibility that they may hear you.

Never stare at any one, even if they have peculiarities, which make them
objects of remark.

In taking your place in an omnibus or car, do so quietly, and then sit
perfectly still. Do not change your place or move restlessly. Make room
for others if you see that the opposite side is full.

If you walk with a gentleman, when he reaches your door invite him in,
but if he declines, do not urge him. If you are returning from a ball or
party, and the hour is a very late (or early) one, you are not bound in
politeness to invite your escort to enter; the hour will be your apology
for omitting the ceremony.



LETTER WRITING.


There is no branch of education called so universally into requisition
as the art of letter writing; no station, high or low, where the
necessity for correspondence is not felt; no person, young or old, who
does not, at some time, write, cause to be written, and receive letters.
From the President in his official capacity, with the busy pens of
secretaries constantly employed in this branch of service, to the Irish
laborer who, unable to guide a pen, writes, also by proxy, to his
kinsfolks across the wide ocean; all, at some time, feel the desire to
transmit some message, word of love, business, or sometimes enmity, by
letter.

Yet, in spite of the universal need, and almost universal habit, there
are really but very few persons who write a _good_ letter; a letter that
is, at the same time long enough to interest, yet not long enough to
tire; sufficiently condensed to keep the attention, and not tedious, and
yet detailed enough to afford satisfaction; that is correct in
grammatical construction, properly punctuated, written in a clear,
legible hand, with the date, address, signature, all in the proper
place, no words whose letters stand in utter defiance to spelling-book
rules; in short, a well-written letter.

Thousands, millions are sent from post to post every day. The lightning
speed of the telegraph takes its messages from city to city; the panting
steamer carries from continent to continent its heavy mail-bags, laden
with its weight of loving messages; the "iron horse" drags behind it,
its measure of the many missives; while, in the far-distant Western
wilds, the lumbering wagon bears its paper freight, with its pen
eloquence, to cheer and comfort, or sadden and crush, the waiting
emigrants, longing for news of home.

To some, who, with hearts desolated by the separation from the home
circle, could read, with an eager interest, volumes of the most
common-place, trivial incidents, if only connected with the loved ones
there, will come pages, from the pen of the dearest relative, full of
learning, wit, and wisdom, wholly uninteresting to the receiver.

Why is this? Not from any desire upon the part of the writer to display
learning or talent, but because, writing a letter being to them a great
undertaking, and the letter being destined to go a long distance, they
look upon it as an event too unusual to be wasted in detailing the
simple, every-day details of domestic life, and ransack memory and
learning for a subject worthy of the long journey and unusual labor.

Others will have, from mere acquaintances, long, tedious details of
uninteresting trivialities, and from the near relatives, short, dry
epistles, which fall like stones upon the heart longing for little,
affectionate expressions, and home memories.

From some letter writers, who are in the midst of scenes and events of
the most absorbing interest, letters arrive, only a few lines long,
without one allusion to the interesting matter lying so profusely around
them; while others, with the scantiest of outward subjects, will, from
their own teeming brain, write bewitching, absorbing epistles, read with
eagerness, laid aside with the echo of Oliver Twist's petition in a
sigh; the reader longing for "more."

It is, of course, impossible to lay down any distinct rule for the
_style_ of letter writing. Embracing, as it does, all subjects and all
classes, all countries and associations, and every relation in which one
person can stand to another, what would be an imperative rule in some
cases, becomes positive absurdity in others. Every letter will vary from
others written before, in either its subject, the person addressed, or
the circumstances which make it necessary to write it.

Letter writing is, in fact, but conversation, carried on with the pen,
when distance or circumstances prevent the easier method of exchanging
ideas, by spoken words. Write, therefore, as you would speak, were the
person to whom your letter is addressed seated beside you. As amongst
relatives and intimate friends you would converse with a familiar
manner, and in easy language, so in your letters to such persons, let
your style be simple, entirely devoid of effort.

Again, when introduced to a stranger, or conversing with one much older
than yourself, your manner is respectful and dignified; so let the
letters addressed to those on these terms with yourself, be written in a
more ceremonious style, but at the same time avoid stiffness, and above
all, pedantry. A letter of advice to a child, would of course demand an
entirely different style, from that written by a young lady to a friend
or relative advanced in life; yet the general rule, "write as you would
converse," applies to each and every case.

Neatness is an important requisite in a letter. To send a fair, clean
sheet, with the words written in a clear, legible hand, will go a great
way in ensuring a cordial welcome for your letter. Avoid erasures, as
they spoil the beauty of your sheet. If it is necessary to correct a
word, draw your pen through it, and write the word you wish to use as a
substitute, above the one erased; do not scratch out the word and write
another over it: it is untidy, and the second word is seldom legible.
Another requisite for a good letter is a clear, concise style. Use
language that will be easily understood, and avoid the parenthesis.
Important passages in letters are often lost entirely, by the ambiguous
manner in which they are worded, or rendered quite as unintelligible by
the blots, erasures, or villainously bad hand-writing. A phrase may, by
the addition or omission of one word, or by the alteration of one
punctuation mark, convey to the reader an entirely different idea from
that intended by the writer; so, while you write plainly, use good
language, you must also write carefully, and punctuate properly.

If you are in doubt about the correct spelling of a word, do not trust
to chance, hoping it may be right, but get a dictionary, and be certain
that you have spelt it as it ought to be.

Simplicity is a great charm in letter-writing. What you send in a
letter, is, as a general rule, intended for the perusal of one person
only. Therefore to cumber your epistles with quotations, similes,
flowery language, and a stilted, pedantic style, is in bad taste. You
may use elegant language, yet use it easily. If you use a quotation, let
it come into its place naturally, as if flowing in perfect harmony with
your ideas, and let it be short. Long quotations in a letter are
tiresome. Make no attempt at display in a correspondence. You will err
as much in such an attempt, as if, when seated face to face with your
correspondent, alone in your own apartment, you were to rise and
converse with the gestures and language of a minister in his pulpit, or
a lecturer upon his platform.

As everything, in style, depends upon the subject of the letter, and the
person to whom it is addressed, some words follow, relating to some of
the various kinds of correspondence:

BUSINESS LETTERS should be as brief as is consistent with the subject;
clear, and to the point. Say all that is necessary, in plain, distinct
language, and say no more. State, in forcible words, every point that it
is desirable for your correspondent to be made acquainted with, that
your designs and prospects upon the subject may be perfectly well
understood. Write, in such a letter, of nothing but the business in
hand; other matters will be out of place there. Nowhere is a confused
style, or illegible writing, more unpardonable than in a business
letter; nowhere a good style and hand more important. Avoid flowery
language, too many words, all pathos or wit, any display of talent or
learning, and every merely personal matter, in a business letter.

LETTERS OF COMPLIMENT must be restricted, confined entirely to one
subject. If passing between acquaintances, they should be written in a
graceful, at the same time respectful, manner. Avoid hackneyed
expressions, commonplace quotations, and long, labored sentences, but
while alluding to the subject in hand, as if warmly interested in it, at
the same time endeavor to write in a style of simple, natural grace.

LETTERS OF CONGRATULATION demand a cheerful, pleasant style, and an
appearance of great interest. They should be written from the heart, and
the cordial, warm feelings there will prompt the proper language. Be
careful, while offering to your friend the hearty congratulations her
happy circumstances demand, that you do not let envy at her good
fortune, creep into your head, to make the pen utter complaining words
at your own hard lot. Do not dampen her joy, by comparing her happiness
with the misery of another. There are many clouds in the life of every
one of us. While the sun shines clearly upon the events of your friend's
life let her enjoy the brightness and warmth, unshadowed by any words of
yours. Give her, to the full, your sympathy in her rejoicing, cheerful
words, warm congratulations, and bright hopes for the future. Should
there be, at the time of her happiness, any sad event you wish to
communicate to her, of which it is your duty to inform her, write it in
another letter. If you must send it the same day, do so, but let the
epistle wishing her joy, go alone, unclouded with the news of sorrow. At
the same time, avoid exaggerated expressions of congratulation, lest you
are suspected of a desire to be satirical, and avoid underlining any
words. If the language is not forcible enough to convey your ideas, you
will not make it better by underlining it. If you say to your friend
upon her marriage, that you wish her "_joy_ in her new relations, and
_hope_ she may be _entirely happy_ in her domestic life," you make her
doubt your wishes, and think you mean to ridicule her chances of such
happiness.

LETTERS OF CONDOLENCE are exceedingly trying, both to read and to write.
If the affliction which calls for them is one which touches you nearly,
really grieving and distressing you, all written words must seem tame
and cold, compared with the aching sympathy which dictates them. It is
hard with the eyes blinded by tears, and the hand shaking, to write
calmly; and it is impossible to express upon paper all the burning
thoughts and words that would pour forth, were you beside the friend
whose sorrow is yours. If you do not feel the trial, your task is still
more difficult, for no letters demand truth, spoken from the heart, more
than letters of condolence. Do not treat the subject for grief too
lightly. Write words of comfort if you will, but do not appear to
consider the affliction as a trifle. Time may make it less severe, but
the first blow of grief must be heavy, and a few words of sincere
sympathy will outweigh pages of mere expressions of hope for comfort, or
the careless lines that show the letter to be one of mere duty, not
feeling. Let your friend feel that her sorrow makes her dearer to you
than ever before, and that her grief is yours. To treat the subject with
levity, or to wander from it into witticisms or every-day chit-chat, is
a wanton insult, unworthy of a lady and a friend. Do not magnify the
event, or plunge the mourner into still deeper despondency by taking a
despairing, gloomy view of the sorrow, under which she is bent. Show her
the silver lining of her cloud, try to soothe her grief, yet be willing
to admit that it _is_ a cloud, and that she _has_ cause for grief. To
throw out hints that the sorrow is sent as a punishment to an offender;
to imply that neglect or imprudence on the part of the mourner is the
cause of the calamity; to hold up the trial as an example of
retribution, or a natural consequence of wrong doing, is cruel, and
barbarous. Even if this is true, (indeed, if this is the case, it only
aggravates the insult); avoid such retrospection. It is as if a surgeon,
called in to a patient suffering from a fractured limb, sat down,
inattentive to the suffering, to lecture his patient upon the
carelessness which caused the accident. One of the most touching letters
of condolence ever written was sent by a literary lady, well known in
the ranks of our American authoresses, to her sister, who had lost her
youngest child. The words were few, merely:--

   "SISTER DARLING:

   "I cannot write what is in my heart for you to-day, it is too
   full. Filled with a double sorrow, for you, for my own grief.
   Tears blind me, my pen trembles in my hand. Oh, to be near
   you! to clasp you in my arms! to draw your head to my bosom,
   and weep with you! Darling, God comfort you, I cannot.

                                                            "S."

That was all. Yet the sorrowing mother said that no other letter, though
she appreciated the kind motive that dictated all, yet none comforted
her as did these few lines. Written from the heart, their simple
eloquence touched the heart for which they were intended. Early stages
of great grief reject _comfort_, but they long, with intense longing,
for sympathy.

LETTERS WRITTEN TO GENTLEMEN should be ceremonious and dignified. If the
acquaintance is slight, write in the third person, if there is a
necessity for a letter. If a business letter, be respectful, yet not
servile. It is better to avoid correspondence with gentlemen,
particularly whilst you are young, as there are many objections to it.
Still, if a friend of long standing solicits a correspondence, and your
parents or husband approve and permit compliance with the request, it
would be over-prudish to refuse. Write, however, such letters as, if
they were printed in the newspapers, would cause you no annoyance. If
the acquaintance admits of a frank, friendly style, be careful that your
expressions of good will do not become too vehement, and avoid any
confidential communications. When he begins to ask you to keep such and
such passages secret, believe me, it is quite time to drop the
correspondence.

LETTERS OF ENQUIRY, especially if they request a favor, should contain a
few lines of compliment. If the letter is upon a private subject, such
as enquiry with regard to the illness or misfortune of a friend, avoid
making it too brief. To write short, careless letters upon such
subjects, is unfeeling, and they will surely be attributed to motives of
obligation or duty, not to interest. Letters of enquiry, referring to
family matters, should be delicately worded, and appear dictated by
interest, not mere curiosity. If the enquiry refers to matters
interesting only to yourself, enclose a postage-stamp for the reply. In
answering such letters, if they refer to your own health or subjects
interesting to yourself, thank the writer for the interest expressed,
and answer in a satisfactory manner. If the answer interests your
correspondent only, do not reply as if the enquiry annoyed you, but
express some interest in the matter of the letter, and give as clear and
satisfactory reply as is in your power.

LETTERS OFFERING FAVORS--Be careful in writing to offer a favor, that
you do not make your friend feel a heavy weight of obligation by
over-rating your services. The kindness will be duly appreciated, and
more highly valued if offered in a delicate manner. Too strong a sense
of obligation is humiliating, so do not diminish the real value of the
service by forcing the receiver to acknowledge a fictitious value. Let
the recipient of your good will feel that it affords you as much
pleasure to confer the favor as it will give her to receive it. A letter
accompanying a present, should be short and gracefully worded. The
affectionate spirit of such little epistles will double the value of the
gift which they accompany. Never refer to a favor received, in such a
letter, as that will give your gift the appearance of being payment for
such favor, and make your letter of about as much value as a tradesman's
receipted bill.

LETTERS OF THANKS for enquiries made, should be short, merely echoing
the words of the letter they answer, and contain the answer to the
question, with an acknowledgement of your correspondent's interest. If
the letter is your own acknowledgement of a favor conferred, let the
language be simple, but strong, grateful, and graceful. Fancy that you
are clasping the hand of the kind friend who has been generous or
thoughtful for you, and then write, even as you would speak. Never hint
that you deem such a favor an obligation to be returned at the first
opportunity; although this may really be the case, it is extremely
indelicate to say so. In your letter gracefully acknowledge the
obligation, and if, at a later day, you can return the favor, then let
actions, not words, prove your grateful recollection of the favor
conferred upon you. If your letter is written to acknowledge the
reception of a present, speak of the beauty or usefulness of the gift,
and of the pleasant associations with her name it will always recall.

LETTERS OF RECOMMENDATION should be truthful, polite, and carefully
considered. Such letters may be business letters, or they may be given
to servants, and they must be given only when really deserved. Do not be
hasty in giving them; remember that you are, in some measure responsible
for the bearer; therefore, never sacrifice truth and frankness, to a
mistaken idea of kindness or politeness.

LETTERS OF INTRODUCTION must be left unsealed. They must not contain any
allusion to the personal qualities of the bearer, as such allusion
would be about as sure a proof of ill-breeding as if you sat beside your
friend, and ran over the list of the virtues and talents possessed by
her. The fact that the person bearing the letter is your friend, will be
all sufficient reason for cordial reception by the friend to whom the
letter is addressed. The best form is:--

                                PHILADELPHIA, _June 18th, 18--_.
   MY DEAR MARY:

   This letter will be handed to you by Mrs. C., to whom I am
   pleased to introduce you, certain that the acquaintance thus
   formed, between two friends of mine, of so long standing and
   so much beloved, will be pleasant to both parties. Any
   attention that you may find it in your power to extend to Mrs.
   C. whilst she is in your city, will be highly appreciated, and
   gratefully acknowledged, by

                                         Your sincere friend
                                                          A----.

LETTERS OF ADVICE should not be written unsolicited. They will, in all
probability, even when requested, be unpalatable, and should never be
sent unless they can really be of service. Write them with frankness and
sincerity. To write after an act has been committed, and is irrevocable,
is folly, and it is also unkind. You may inform your friend that, "had
you been consulted, a different course from the one taken would have
been recommended," and you may really believe this, yet it will probably
be false. Seeing the unfavorable result of the wrong course will enable
you fully to appreciate the wisdom of the right one, but, had you been
consulted when the matter was doubtful, you would probably have been as
much puzzled as your friend to judge the proper mode of action. You
should word a letter of advice delicately, stating your opinion frankly
and freely, but giving it _as_ an opinion, not as a positive law. If the
advice is not taken, do not feel offended, as others, more experienced
than yourself upon the point in question, may have also been consulted.
Let no selfish motive govern such a letter. Think only of the good or
evil to result to your friend, and while you may write warmly and
earnestly, let the motive be a really disinterested one.

LETTERS OF EXCUSE should be frank and graceful. They must be written
promptly, as soon as the occasion that calls for them admits. If
delayed, they become insulting. If such a letter is called forth by an
act of negligence on your own part, apologize for it frankly, and show
by your tone that you sincerely desire to regain the confidence your
carelessness has periled. If you have been obliged by positive inability
to neglect the fulfilment of any promise you have given, or any
commission you have undertaken, then state the reason for your delay,
and solicit the indulgence of your friend. Do not write in such stiff,
formal language that the apology will seem forced from you, but offer
your excuse frankly, as if with a sincere desire to atone for an act of
negligence, or remove a ground of offence.

LETTERS OF INTELLIGENCE are generally the answer to letters of enquiry,
or the statement of certain incidents or facts, interesting both to the
writer and reader of the letter. Be careful in writing such a letter
that you have all the facts in exact accordance with the truth. Remember
that every word is set down against you, if one item of your information
prove to be false; and do not allow personal opinion or prejudice to
dictate a single sentence. Never repeat anything gathered from mere
hearsay, and be careful, in such a letter, that you violate no
confidence, nor force yourself upon the private affairs of any one. Do
not let scandal or a mere love of gossip dictate a letter of
intelligence. If your news is painful, state it as delicately as
possible, and add a few lines expressive of sympathy. If it is your
pleasant task to communicate a joyful event, make your letter cheerful
and gay. If you have written any such letter, and, after sending it,
find you have made any error in a statement, write, and correct the
mistake immediately. It may be a trivial error, yet there is no false or
mistaken news so trifling as to make a correction unnecessary.

INVITATIONS are generally written in the third person, and this form is
used where the acquaintance is very slight, for formal notes, and cards
of compliment. The form is proper upon such occasions, but should be
used only in the most ceremonious correspondence. If this style is
adopted by a person who has been accustomed to write in a more familiar
one to you, take it as a hint, that the correspondence has, for some
reason, become disagreeable, and had better cease.

AUTOGRAPH LETTERS should be very short; merely acknowledging the
compliment paid by the request for the signature, and a few words
expressing the pleasure you feel in granting the favor. If you write to
ask for an autograph, always inclose a postage stamp for the answer.

Date every letter you write accurately, and avoid postscripts.

Politeness, kindness, both demand that every letter you receive must be
answered. Nothing can give more pleasure in a correspondence, than
prompt replies. Matters of much importance often rest upon the reply to
a letter, and therefore this duty should never be delayed. In answering
friendly letters, it will be found much easier to write what is kind and
interesting, if you sit down to the task as soon as you read your
friend's letter. Always mention the date of the letter to which your own
is a reply.

Never write on a half sheet of paper. Paper is cheap, and a _half_ sheet
looks both mean and slovenly. If you do not write but three lines, still
send the whole sheet of paper. Perfectly plain paper, thick, smooth, and
white, is the most elegant. When in mourning, use paper and envelopes
with a black edge. Never use the gilt edged, or fancy bordered paper; it
looks vulgar, and is in bad taste. You may, if you will, have your
initials stamped at the top of the sheet, and on the seal of the
envelope, but do not have any fancy ornaments in the corners, or on the
back of the envelope.

You will be guilty of a great breach of politeness, if you answer either
a note or letter upon the half sheet of the paper sent by your
correspondent, even though it may be left blank.

Never write, even the shortest note, in pencil. It looks careless, and
is rude.

Never write a letter carelessly. It may be addressed to your most
intimate friend, or your nearest relative, but you can never be sure
that the eye for which it is intended, will be the _only_ one that sees
it. I do not mean by this, that the epistle should be in a formal,
studied _style_, but that it must be correct in its grammatical
construction, properly punctuated, with every word spelt according to
rule. Even in the most familiar epistles, observe the proper rules for
composition; you would not in conversing, even with your own family, use
incorrect grammar, or impertinent language; therefore avoid saying upon
paper what you would not say with your tongue.

Notes written in the third person, must be continued throughout in the
same person; they are frequently very mysterious from the confusion of
pronouns, yet it is a style of correspondence much used and very proper
upon many occasions. For compliment, inquiry where there is no intimacy
between the parties, from superiors to inferiors, the form is elegant
and proper. If you receive a note written in the third person, reply in
the same form, but do not reply thus to a more familiar note or letter,
as it is insulting, and implies offence taken. If you wish to repel
undue familiarity or impertinence in your correspondent, then reply to
the epistle in the most formal language, and in the third person.

It is an extraordinary fact, that persons who have received a good
education, and who use their pens frequently, will often, in writing
notes, commence in the third person and then use the second or first
personal pronoun, and finish by a signature; thus--

   Miss Claire's compliments to Mr. James, and wishes to know
   whether you have finished reading my copy of "Jane Eyre," as
   if Mr. James had finished it, I would like to lend it to
   another friend.

                                       Sincerely yours,
                                                    ELLA CLAIRE.

The errors in the above are too glaring to need comment, yet, with only
the alteration of names, it is a copy, _verbatim_, of a note written by
a well educated girl.

Never sign a note written in the third person, if you begin the note
with your own name. It is admissible, if the note is worded in this
way:--

   Will Mr. James return by bearer, the copy of "Jane Eyre" he
   borrowed, if he has finished reading it, and oblige his
   sincere friend,

                                                    ELLA CLAIRE.

If you use a quotation, never omit to put it in quotation marks,
otherwise your correspondent may, however unjustly, accuse you of a
desire to pass off the idea and words of another, for your own.

Avoid postscripts. Above all, never send an inquiry or compliment in a
postscript. To write a long letter, upon various subjects, and in the
postscript desire to be remembered to your friend's family, or inquire
for their welfare, instead of a compliment, becomes insulting. It is
better, if you have not time to write again and place such inquiries
above your signature, to omit them entirely. Nobody likes to see their
name mentioned as an afterthought.

Punctuate your letters carefully. The want of a mark of punctuation, or
the incorrect placing of it, will make the most woful confusion. I give
an instance of the utter absurdity produced by the alteration of
punctuation marks, turning a sensible paragraph to the most arrant
nonsense:

"Cæsar entered; on his head his helmet; on his feet armed sandals; upon
his brow there was a cloud; in his right hand his faithful sword; in his
eye an angry glare; saying nothing, he sat down."

By using precisely the same words, merely altering the position of the
punctuation marks, we have--

"Cæsar entered on his head; his helmet on his feet; armed sandals upon
his brow; there was a cloud in his right hand; his faithful sword in his
eye; an angry glare saying nothing; he sat down."

Be careful, then, to punctuate properly, that you may convey to the
reader the exact sense of what is in your mind.

If you receive an impertinent letter, treat it with contempt; do not
answer it.

Never answer a letter by proxy, when you are able to write yourself. It
is a mark of respect and love, to answer, in your own hand, all letters
addressed to you. If you are obliged to write to a friend to refuse to
grant a favor asked, you will lessen the pain of refusal by wording your
letter delicately. Loving words, if it is a near friend, respectful,
kind ones if a mere acquaintance, will make the disagreeable contents of
the letter more bearable. Try to make the _manner_ smooth and soften the
hardness of the _matter_.

Every letter must embrace the following particulars: 1st. The date. 2d.
The complimentary address. 3d. The body of the letter. 4th. The
complimentary closing. 5th. The signature. 6th. The address.

There are two ways of putting the date, and the address. The first is to
place them at the top of the sheet, the other is to place them after the
signature.

When at the top, you write the name of your residence, or that of the
city in which you reside, with the day of the month and the year, at the
right hand of the first line of the sheet. Then, at the left hand of the
next line, write the address, then the complimentary address below the
name; thus--

                                    WILLOW GROVE, NEW YORK,
                                              _June 27th, 1859_.

   MRS. E. C. HOWELL,

           My dear Madam,
                      I received your letter, etc.

At the end of the letter, on the right hand of the sheet, put the
complimentary closing, and then the signature; thus--

                                I remain, my dear Madam,
                                         With much respect,
                                              Yours sincerely,
                                                      S. E. LAW.

If you place the date and address after the signature, put it at the
left of the sheet; thus--

                                I remain, my dear Madam,
                                         With much respect,
                                              Yours sincerely,
                                                      S. E. LAW.

   MRS. E. C. HOWELL.
          _June 27th, 1859._

For a long letter, it is better to put the date and address at the top
of the page. For a letter of only a few lines, which ends on the first
page, the second form is best. In a letter written to a person in the
same city, you need not put the address under the signature; if not,
write it--

                                   S. E. LAW,
                                         WILLOW GROVE, NEW YORK.

In writing to a dear friend or relative, where there is no formality
required, you may omit the name at the top of the letter; put the date
and address thus--

                                    WILLOW GROVE, NEW YORK,
                                              _June 27th, 1859_.

   DEAR ANNA:

          I write, etc.

It is best, however, to put the full name at the bottom of the last
page, in case the letter is mislaid without the envelope; thus--

                                                      E. C. LAW.
   MISS ANNA WRIGHT.

If you use an envelope, and this custom is now universal, fold your
letter neatly to fit into it; then direct on the envelope. Put first the
name, then the name of the person to whose care the letter must be
directed, then the street, the city, and State. If the town is small,
put also the county.

This is the form:--

                    MISS ANNA WRIGHT,
                        Care of Mr. John C. Wright,
                           No. 40, Lexington street,
                                     Greensburg--Lee County.
                                                           Mass.

If the city is a large one, New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, or any of
the principal cities of the Union, you may omit the name of the county.
If your letter is to go abroad, add the name of the country: as,
England, or France, in full, under that of the city.

The name of the state is usually abbreviated, and for the use of my
readers, I give the names of the United States with their abbreviations:

Maine, Me. New Hampshire, N. H. Vermont, Vt. Massachusetts, Mass. Rhode
Island, R. I. Connecticut, Conn. New York, N. Y. New Jersey, N. J.
Pennsylvania, Pa., or, Penn. Delaware, Del. Maryland, Md. Virginia, Va.
North Carolina, N. C. South Carolina, S. C. Georgia, Ga., or, Geo.
Alabama, Ala. Mississippi, Miss. Missouri, Mo. Louisiana, La. Tennessee,
Tenn. Kentucky, Ky. Indiana, Ind. Ohio, O. Michigan, Mich. Illinois,
Ill. Wisconsin, Wis. Arkansas, Ark. Texas, Tex. Iowa, Io. Florida, Flo.
Oregon, O. California, Cal. Minnesota, Minn. District of Columbia, D. C.
If you are writing from another country to America, put United States of
America after the name of the state.

On the upper right hand corner of your envelope, put your postage-stamp.

If you send a letter by private hand, write the name of the bearer in
the lower left hand corner, thus:

                                  MRS. E. A. HOWELL,
                                             Clinton Place,
                                                         Boston.

   Mr. G. G. Lane.

In directing to any one who can claim any prefix, or addition, to his
proper name do not omit to put that "republican title." For a clergyman,
Rev. for Reverend is put before the name, thus:--

  REV. JAMES C. DAY.

For a bishop:

  RIGHT REVEREND E. BANKS.

For a physician:

  DR. JAMES CURTIS.

  or,

  JAMES CURTIS, M.D.

For a member of Congress:

  HON. E. C. DELTA.

For an officer in the navy:

  CAPT. HENRY LEE, U. S. N.

For an officer in the army:

  COL. EDWARD HOLMES, U. S. A.

For a professor:

  PROF. E. L. JAMES.

If the honorary addition, LL.D., A. M., or any such title belongs to
your correspondent, add it to his name on the envelope, thus:--

  J. L. PETERS, LL.D.

If you seal with wax, it is best to put a drop under the turn-over, and
fasten this down firmly before you drop the wax that is to receive the
impression.

Cards of compliment are usually written in the third person. I give a
few of the most common and proper forms.

For a party:

   Miss Lee's compliments to Mr. Bates, for Wednesday evening,
   Nov. 18th, at 8 o'clock.

Addressed to a lady:

   Miss Lee requests the pleasure of Miss Howard's company on
   Wednesday evening, Nov. 18th, at 8 o'clock.

For a ball, the above form, with the word _Dancing_, in the left hand
corner.

Invitations to dinner or tea specify the entertainment thus:

   Mrs. Garret's compliments to Mr. and Mrs. Howard, and requests
   the pleasure of their company to dine (or take tea) on
   Wednesday, Nov. 6th, at 6 o'clock.

The form for answering, is:--

   Miss Howard accepts with pleasure Miss Lee's polite invitation
   for Wednesday evening.

   or,

   Miss Howard regrets that a prior engagement will prevent her
   accepting Miss Lee's polite invitation for Wednesday evening.

   Mr. and Mrs. Howard's compliments to Mrs. Garret, and accept
   with pleasure her kind invitation for Wednesday.

   or,

   Mrs. Howard regrets that the severe illness of Mr. Howard will
   render it impossible for either herself or Mr. Howard to join
   Mrs. Garret's party on Wednesday next.

Upon visiting cards, left when the caller is about to leave the city,
the letters _p. p. c._ are put in the left hand corner, they are the
abbreviation of the French words, _pour prendre congé_, or may, with
equal propriety, stand for _presents parting compliments_. Another form,
_p. d. a._, _pour dire adieu_, may be used.

No accomplishment within the scope of human knowledge is so beautiful in
all its features as that of epistolary correspondence. Though distance,
absence, and circumstances may separate the holiest alliances of
friendship, or those who are bound together by the still stronger ties
of affection, yet the power of interchanging thoughts, words, feelings,
and sentiments, through the medium of letters, adds a sweetness to the
pain of separation, renovating to life, and adding to happiness.

The wide ocean may roll between those who have passed the social years
of youth together, or the snow-capped Alps may rise in sublime grandeur,
separating early associates; still young remembrances may be called up,
and the paradise of memory made to bloom afresh with unwithered flowers
of holy recollection.

Though we see not eye to eye and face to face, where the soft music of a
loved voice may fall with its richness upon the ear, yet the very soul
and emotions of the mind may be poured forth in such melody as to touch
the heart "that's far away," and melt down the liveliest eye into tears
of ecstatic rapture.

Without the ability to practice the refined art of epistolary
correspondence, men would become cold and discordant: an isolated
compound of misanthropy. They would fall off in forsaken fragments from
the great bond of union which now adorns and beautifies all society.
Absence, distance, and time would cut the silken cords of parental,
brotherly, and even connubial affection. Early circumstances would be
lost in forgetfulness, and the virtues of reciprocal friendship "waste
their sweetness on the desert air."

Since, then, the art and practice of letter-writing is productive of so
much refined and social happiness, a laudable indulgence in it must ever
be commendable. While it elevates the noble faculties of the mind, it
also chastens the disposition, and improves those intellectual powers
which would otherwise remain dormant and useless.

Notwithstanding the various beauties and pleasures attendant upon the
accomplishment, yet there are many who have given it but a slight
portion of their attention, and have, therefore, cause to blush at their
own ignorance when necessity demands its practice. There is no better
mode by which to test the acquirements of either a young lady or
gentleman than from their letters.

Letters are among the most useful forms of composition. There are few
persons, who can read or write at all, who do not frequently have
occasion to write them; and an elegant letter is much more rare than an
elegant specimen of any other kind of writing.

The more rational and elevated the topics are, on which you write, the
less will you care for your letters being seen, or for paragraphs being
read out of them; and where there is no need of any secrecy, it is best
not to bind your friend by promises, but to leave it to her discretion.


POLITE DEPORTMENT, AND GOOD HABITS.


Lord Chesterfield says, "Good sense and good nature suggest civility in
general; but in good breeding there are a thousand little delicacies
which are established only by custom."

It is the knowledge and practice of such "little delicacies" which
constitutes the greatest charm of society.

Manner may be, and, in most cases, probably is, the cloak of the heart;
this cloak may be used to cover defects, but is it not better so to
conceal these defects, than to flaunt and parade them in the eyes of all
whom we may meet?

Many persons plead a love of truth as an apology for rough manners, as
if truth was never gentle and kind, but always harsh, morose, and
forbidding. Surely good manners and a good conscience are no more
inconsistent with each other than beauty and innocence, which are
strikingly akin, and always look the better for companionship. Roughness
and honesty are indeed sometimes found together in the same person, but
he is a poor judge of human nature who takes ill-manners to be a
guarantee of probity of character. Some persons object to politeness,
that its language is unmeaning and false. But this is easily answered.
A lie is not locked up in a phrase, but must exist, if at all, in the
mind of the speaker. In the ordinary compliments of civilized life,
there is no intention to deceive, and consequently no falsehood. Polite
language is pleasant to the ear, and soothing to the heart, while rough
words are just the reverse; and if not the product of ill temper, are
very apt to produce it. The plainest of truths, let it be remembered,
can be conveyed in civil speech, while the most malignant lies may find
utterance, and often do, in the language of the fishmarket.

Many ladies say, "Oh, I am perfectly frank and outspoken; I never stop
to mince words," or, "there is no affectation about me; all my actions
are perfectly natural," and, upon the ground of frankness, will insult
and wound by rude language, and defend awkwardness and ill-breeding by
the plea of "natural manners."

If nature has not invested you with all the virtues which may be
desirable in a lady, do not make your faults more conspicuous by
thrusting them forward upon all occasions, and at all times. "Assume a
virtue if you have it not," and you will, in time, by imitation, acquire
it.

By endeavoring to _appear_ generous, disinterested, self-sacrificing,
and amiable, the opposite passions will be brought into subjection,
first in the manner, afterwards in the heart. It is not the desire to
deceive, but the desire to please, which will dictate such a course.
When you hear one, who pretends to be a lady, boast that she is rough,
capricious, and gluttonous, you may feel sure that she has never tried
to conquer these faults, or she would be ashamed, not proud, of them.

The way to make yourself pleasing to others, is to show that you care
for them. The whole world is like the miller at Mansfield, "who cared
for nobody--no, not he--because nobody cared for him." And the whole
world will serve you so, if you give them the same cause. Let every one,
therefore, see that you do care for them, by showing them, what Sterne
so happily calls, "the small, sweet courtesies of life," those
courtesies in which there is no parade; whose voice is too still to
tease, and which manifest themselves by tender and affectionate looks,
and little, kind acts of attention, giving others the preference in
every little enjoyment at the table, in the field, walking, sitting, or
standing.

Thus the first rule for a graceful manner is unselfish consideration of
others.

By endeavoring to acquire the habit of politeness, it will soon become
familiar, and sit on you with ease, if not with elegance. Let it never
be forgotten, that genuine politeness is a great fosterer of family
love; it allays accidental irritation, by preventing harsh retorts and
rude contradictions; it softens the boisterous, stimulates the indolent,
suppresses selfishness, and by forming a habit of consideration for
others, harmonizes the whole. Politeness begets politeness, and brothers
may be easily won by it, to leave off the rude ways they bring home from
school or college. Sisters ought never to receive any little attention
without thanking them for it, never to ask a favor of them but in
courteous terms, never to reply to their questions in monosyllables,
and they will soon be ashamed to do such things themselves. Both
precept and example ought to be laid under contribution, to convince
them that no one can have really good manners abroad, who is not
habitually polite at home.

If you wish to be a well-bred lady, you must carry your good manners
everywhere with you. It is not a thing that can be laid aside and put on
at pleasure. True politeness is uniform disinterestedness in trifles,
accompanied by the calm self-possession which belongs to a noble
simplicity of purpose; and this must be the effect of a Christian spirit
running through all you do, or say, or think; and, unless you cultivate
it and exercise it, upon all occasions and towards all persons, it will
never be a part of yourself.

It is not an art to be paraded upon public occasions, and neglected in
every-day duties; nor should it, like a ball-dress, be carefully laid
aside at home, trimmed, ornamented, and worn only when out. Let it come
into every _thought_, and it will show forth in every _action_. Let it
be the rule in the homeliest duties, and then it will set easily when in
public, not in a stiff manner, like a garment seldom worn.

I wish it were possible to convince every woman that politeness is a
most excellent good quality; that it is a necessary ingredient in social
comfort, and a capital assistant to actual prosperity. Like most good
things, however, the word politeness is often misunderstood and
misapplied; and before urging the practical use of that which it
represents, it may be necessary to say what it means, and what it does
not mean.

Politeness is not hypocrisy:--cold-heartedness, or unkindness in
disguise. There are persons who can smile upon a victim, and talk
smoothly, while they injure, deceive, or betray. And they will take
credit to themselves, that all has been done with the utmost
_politeness_; that every tone, look, and action, has been in perfect
keeping with the rules of good breeding. "The words of their mouth are
smoother than butter, but war is in their heart: their words are softer
than oil, yet are they drawn swords." Perish for ever and ever such
spurious politeness as this!

Politeness is not servility. If it were so, a Russian serf would be a
model of politeness. It is very possible for persons to be very cringing
and obsequious, without a single atom of politeness; and it often
happens that men of the most sturdy independence of character, are
essentially polite in all their words, actions, and feelings. It were
well for this to be fully understood, for many people will abstain from
acts of real politeness, and even of common civility, for fear of
damaging their fancied independence.

True politeness, as I understand it, is kindness and courtesy of feeling
brought into every-day exercise. It comprehends hearty good will towards
everybody, thorough and constant good-humor, an easy deportment, and
obliging manners. Every person who cultivates such feelings, and takes
no pains to conceal them, will necessarily be polite, though she may not
exactly know it; while, on the other hand, a woman essentially morose
and selfish, whatever may be her pretensions, must be very far from
truly polite.

It is very true there are those whose position in society compels them
to observe certain rules of etiquette which pass for politeness. They
bow or courtesy with a decent grace; shake hands with the precise degree
of vigor which the circumstances of the case require; speak just at the
right time, and in the required manner, and smile with elegant
propriety. Not a tone, look, or gesture, is out of place; not a habit
indulged which etiquette forbids; and yet, there will be wanting, after
all, the secret charm of sincerity and heart kindness, which those
outward signs are intended to represent; and, wanting which, we have
only the form, without the essence, of politeness.

Let me recommend, therefore, far beyond all the rules ever penned by
teachers of etiquette, the cultivation of kind and loving feelings.
Throw your whole soul into the lesson, and you will advance rapidly
towards the perfection of politeness, for "out of the abundance of the
heart the mouth speaketh," and the movements of your form and the words
you utter will follow faithfully the hidden springs of action within.

There cannot be genuine good breeding to any happy degree, where there
is not self-respect. It is that which imparts ease and confidence to our
manners, and impels us, for our own sake, as well as for the sake of
others, to behave becomingly as intelligent beings.

It is a want of true politeness that introduces the discord and
confusion which too often make our homes unhappy. A little consideration
for the feelings of those whom we are bound to love and cherish, and a
little sacrifice of our own wills, would, in multitudes of instances,
make all the difference between alienation and growing affection. The
principle of genuine politeness would accomplish this; and what a pity
it is that those whose only spring of rational enjoyment is to be found
at _home_, should miss that enjoyment by a disregard of little things,
which, after all, make up the sum of human existence!

What a large amount of actual discomfort in domestic life would be
prevented, if all children were trained, both by precept and example, to
the practice of common politeness! If they were taught to speak
respectfully to parents, and brothers, and sisters, to friends,
neighbors, and strangers, what bawlings, and snarlings would be stilled!
If their behavior within doors, and especially at the table, were
regulated by a few of the common rules of good breeding, how much
natural and proper disgust would be spared! If courtesy of demeanor,
towards all whom they meet in field or highway, were instilled, how much
more pleasant would be our town travels, and our rustic rambles! Every
parent has a personal interest in this matter; and if every parent would
but make the needful effort, a great degree of gross incivility, and
consequent annoyance, would soon be swept away from our hearths and
homes.

Whilst earnestly endeavoring to acquire true politeness, avoid that
spurious imitation, affectation. It is to genuine politeness and good
breeding, what the showy paste is to the pure diamond. It is the
offspring of a sickly taste, a deceitful heart, and a sure proof of low
breeding.

The certain test of affectation in any individual, is the looking,
speaking, moving, or acting in any way different when in the presence of
others, especially those whose opinion we regard and whose approbation
we desire, from what we should do in solitude, or in the presence of
those only whom we disregard, or who we think cannot injure or benefit
us. The motive for resisting affectation is, that it is both
unsuccessful and sinful. It always involves a degree of hypocrisy, which
is exceedingly offensive in the sight of God, which is generally
detected even by men, and which, when detected, exposes its subject to
contempt which could never have been excited by the mere absence of any
quality or possession, as it is by the false assumption of what is not
real. The best cure for affectation is the cultivation, on principle, of
every good, virtuous, and amiable habit and feeling, not for the sake of
being approved or admired, but because it is right in itself, and
without considering what people will think of it. Thus a real character
will be formed instead of a part being assumed, and admiration and love
will be spontaneously bestowed where they are really deserved.
Artificial manners are easily seen through; and the result of such
observations, however accomplished and beautiful the object may be, is
contempt for such littleness.

Many ladies, moving, too, in good society, will affect a forward, bold
manner, very disagreeable to persons of sense. They will tell of their
wondrous feats, when engaged in pursuits only suited for men; they will
converse in a loud, boisterous tone; laugh loudly; sing comic songs, or
dashing bravuras in a style only fit for the stage or a gentleman's
after-dinner party; they will lay wagers, give broad hints and then
brag of their success in forcing invitations or presents; interlard
their conversation with slang words or phrases suited only to the stable
or bar-room, and this they think is a dashing, fascinating manner. It
may be encouraged, admired, in their presence, by gentlemen, and
imitated by younger ladies, but, be sure, it is looked upon with
contempt, and disapproval by every one of good sense, and that to
persons of real refinement it is absolutely disgusting.

Other ladies, taking quite as mistaken a view of real refinement, will
affect the most childish timidity, converse only in whispers, move
slowly as an invalid, faint at the shortest notice, and on the slightest
provocation; be easily moved to tears, and profess never to eat, drink,
or sleep. This course is as absurd as the other, and much more
troublesome, as everybody dreads the scene which will follow any shock
to the dear creature's nerves, and will be careful to avoid any
dangerous topics.

Self-respect, and a proper deference for our superiors in age or
intellect, will be the best safeguards against either a cringing or
insolent manner.

Without self-respect you will be apt to be both awkward and bashful;
either of which faults are entirely inconsistent with a graceful manner.
Be careful that while you have sufficient self-respect to make your
manner easy, it does not become arrogance and so engender insolence.
Avoid sarcasm; it will, unconsciously to yourself, degenerate into
pertness, and often downright rudeness. Do not be afraid to speak
candidly, but temper candor with courtesy, and never let wit run into
that satire that will wound deeply, whilst it amuses only slightly.

Let your carriage be at once dignified and graceful. There are but few
figures that will bear quick motion; with almost every one its effect is
that of a jerk, a most awkward movement. Let the feet, in walking or
dancing, be turned out slightly; when you are seated, rest them both on
the floor or a footstool. To sit with the knees or feet crossed or
doubled up, is awkward and unlady-like. Carry your arms, in walking,
easily; never crossing them stiffly or swinging them beside you. When
seated, if you are not sewing or knitting, keep your hands perfectly
quiet. This, whilst one of the most difficult accomplishments to attain,
is the surest mark of a lady. Do not fidget, playing with your rings,
brooch, or any little article that may be near you; let your hands rest
in an easy, natural position, perfectly quiet.

Never gesticulate when conversing; it looks theatrical, and is ill-bred;
so are all contortions of the features, shrugging of shoulders, raising
of the eyebrows, or hands.

When you open a conversation, do so with a slight bow and smile, but be
careful not to simper, and not to smile too often, if the conversation
becomes serious.

Never point. It is excessively ill-bred.

Avoid exclamations; they are in excessively bad taste, and are apt to be
vulgar words. A lady may express as much polite surprise or concern by a
few simple, earnest words, or in her manner, as she can by exclaiming
"Good gracious!" "Mercy!" or "Dear me!"

Remember that every part of your person and dress should be in perfect
order before you leave the dressing-room, and avoid all such tricks as
smoothing your hair with your hand, arranging your curls, pulling the
waist of your dress down, or settling your collar or sleeves.

Avoid lounging attitudes, they are indelicate, except in your own
private apartment. Nothing but ill health will excuse them before
company, and a lady had better keep her room if she is too feeble to sit
up in the drawing-room.

Let your deportment suit your age and figure; to see a tiny, fairy-like
young girl, marching erect, stiff, and awkwardly, like a soldier on
parade, is not more absurd than to see a middle-aged, portly woman,
aping the romping, hoydenish manners of a school-girl.

Let the movements be easy and flexible, and accord with the style of the
lady.

Let your demeanor be always marked by modesty and simplicity; as soon as
you become forward or affected, you have lost your greatest charm of
manner.

You should be quite as anxious to _talk_ with propriety as you are to
think, work, sing, paint, or write, according to the most correct rules.

Always select words calculated to convey an exact impression of your
meaning.

Let your articulation be easy, clear, correct in accent, and suited in
tone and emphasis to your discourse.

Avoid a muttering, mouthing, stuttering, droning, guttural, nasal, or
lisping, pronunciation.

Let your speech be neither too loud nor too low; but adjusted to the ear
of your companion. Try to prevent the necessity of any person crying,
"What? What?"

Avoid a loquacious propensity; you should never occupy more than your
share of the time, or more than is agreeable to others.

Beware of such vulgar interpolations as "You know," "You see," "I'll
tell you what."

Pay a strict regard to the rules of grammar, even in private
conversation. If you do not understand these rules, learn them, whatever
be your age or station.

Though you should always speak pleasantly, do not mix your conversation
with loud bursts of laughter.

Never indulge in uncommon words, or in Latin and French phrases, but
choose the best understood terms to express your meaning.

Above all, let your conversation be intellectual, graceful, chaste,
discreet, edifying, and profitable.



CONDUCT IN CHURCH.


In entering a church of a different denomination from the one you have
been in the habit of frequenting, ask the sexton to show you to a seat.
It is the height of rudeness to enter a pew without invitation, as the
owner may desire, if her family do not require all the seats, to invite
her own personal friends to take the vacant places. If you are not
perfectly familiar with the manner of conducting the worship, observe
those around you, rise, kneel, and sit, as you see they do. It is a mark
of disrespect for the pastor as well as irreverence for the Most High,
to remain seated through the whole service, unless you are ill, or
otherwise incapacitated from standing and kneeling.

Enter the sacred edifice slowly, reverentially, and take your seat
quietly. It is not required of you to bow to any friend you may see in
passing up the aisle, as you are supposed yourself to be, and suppose
her to be entirely absorbed in thought proper for the occasion. To stare
round the church, or if you are not alone, to whisper to your companion,
is irreverent, indelicate, and rude. If your own feelings will not
prompt you to silence and reverence, pay some regard to the feelings of
others.

Be careful not to appear to notice those around you. If others are so
rude as to talk or conduct improperly, fix your own mind upon the
worship which you come to pay, and let the impertinence pass unheeded.

If there is another person in the same pew with yourself, who, more
familiar with the service, hands you the book, or points out the place,
acknowledge the civility by a silent bow; it is not necessary to speak.

In your own pew, extend this courtesy to a stranger who may come in
beside you, and even if it is a gentleman you may, with perfect
propriety, hand him a book, or, if there is but one, offer him a share
of your own.

Endeavor always to be in your seat before the service commences, and
after it is over do not hurry away, and, above all, do not begin your
preparations for departure, by shutting up your book, or putting on any
article of dress you have removed, before the benediction.

If you are invited to accompany a friend to church, be sure you are
ready in good season, that you may not keep her waiting when she calls,
or cause her to lose any part of the service by detaining her at your
house. If you invite a friend to take a seat in your pew, call for her
early, give her the most comfortable place, and be sure she has a prayer
and hymn-book.

If you are invited to stand as god-mother to a friend's child, be at the
house of the parents in season to accompany the family to church, and
send, the day before, the gift you design for the babe. A silver cup is
the usual present, with your little namesake's initials, or full name,
engraved upon it.

In assisting at a wedding at church, if you are one of the bridesmaids,
wear white, a white bonnet but no veil. If you occupy the first place,
the bride's, it is in better taste to be married in a simple dress and
bonnet, and don your full dress when you return home to receive your
friends. In such ceremonies the wedding-party all meet in the vestry,
and go to the altar together.[A]

[A] For further particulars, see chapter on Bridal Etiquette.

At a funeral, enter the church quietly, and, unless you belong to the
mourners, wait until they leave the church before you rise from your
seat. Never attempt to speak to any of the afflicted family. However
heartfelt your sympathy, it will not be welcome at that time.

If, when entering a crowded church, a gentleman sees you and offers his
seat, acknowledge his civility, whether accepted or declined, by a bow,
and a whispered "thank you." Many, who claim the name of lady, and think
they are well-bred, will accept such an act of politeness without making
the slightest acknowledgement. If the service has commenced, do not
speak; a courteous inclination of the head will convey your sense of
obligation.

Remember, as an imperative, general rule, in whatever church you may be,
whether at home or abroad, conform to the mode of worship whilst you are
in that church. If you find, in these modes, forms which are
disagreeable to you, or which shock your own ideas of religion, avoid a
second visit, but do not insult the congregation, by showing your
contempt or disapproval, whilst you are among them. Silence, quiet
attention, and a grave, reverential demeanor, mark the Christian lady in
church.




BALL ROOM ETIQUETTE.

FOR THE HOSTESS.


When you have decided upon what evening you will give your ball, send
out your invitations, a fortnight before the evening appointed. To
ladies, word them:--

   Mrs. L---- requests the pleasure of Miss G----'s company on
   Wednesday evening, Jan. 17th, at 9 o'clock.

   _Dancing._

   The favor of an early answer is requested.

To gentlemen:--

   Mrs. L----'s compliments to Mr. R---- for Wednesday evening,
   Jan. 17th, at 9 o'clock.

   _Dancing._

   The favor of an early answer is requested.

If you are unmarried, put your mother's name with your own upon the
cards. If you have a father or grown-up brother, let the invitations to
the gentlemen go in his name.

In making your list for a ball, do not set down _all_ of your "dear
five hundred friends." The middle-aged, (unless they come as chaperons,)
the serious, and the sober-minded, will not accept your invitation, and
the two last named may consider it insulting to be invited to so
frivolous an amusement. By the way, I do not agree with the
straight-laced people, who condemn all such amusements. I agree with
Madame Pilau. When the curé of her parish told her he was writing a
series of sermons against dancing, she said to him:

"You are talking of what you do not understand. _You_ have never been to
a ball, _I_ have; and I assure you there is no sin in the matter worthy
of mention or notice."

If you really wish for dancing, you will accommodate your guests to your
rooms, inviting one third more than they will hold, as about that number
generally disappoint a ball-giver. If you wish to have a rush of people,
and do not mind heat, crowding, and discomfort, to insure an immense
assembly, (a ball to be talked about for its size only,) then you may
invite every body who figures upon your visiting list.

Over one hundred is a "large ball," under that a "ball," unless there
are less than fifty guests, when it is merely a "dance."

The directions given in chapter 5th for the arrangement of the
dressing-rooms will apply here, but your parlor, or ball room, requires
some attention. Have the carpets taken up two days before the evening of
the ball, and the floor waxed. A smooth, polished floor is an absolute
necessity for pleasant dancing. At one end of your ball room, have a
space partitioned off for the musicians. Leave, for their use, plenty of
room, as silence or discord will come from a crowded orchestra. If your
house is double, and you use the rooms on each side, place the musicians
in the hall.

Four pieces of music is enough for a private ball, unless your rooms are
very large. For one room a piano, violin, and violoncello makes a good
band.

You must have your rooms well ventilated if you wish to avoid fainting
and discomfort.

To secure a really brilliant ball, pay considerable attention to the
arrangement of your ball room. In Paris this arrangement consists in
turning the room, for the evening, into a perfect garden. Every corner
is filled with flowers. Wreaths, bouquets, baskets, and flowering-plants
in moss-covered pots. With brilliant light, and taste in the details of
arranging them, this profusion of flowers produces an exquisitely
beautiful effect, and harmonizes perfectly with the light dresses,
cheerful faces, and gay music. The pleasure of your guests, as well as
the beauty of the rooms, will be increased by the elegance of your
arrangements; their beauty will be heightened by brilliant light, and by
judicious management a scene of fairy-like illusion may be produced.

Not only in the ball room itself, but in the hall, supper-room, and
dressing-rooms, place flowers. A fine effect is produced, by placing a
screen, covered with green and flowers, before the space set apart for
the musicians. To hear the music proceeding from behind this floral
embankment, and yet have the scraping and puffing men invisible, adds
very much to the illusion of the scene.

In the dressing-rooms have, at least, two servants for each. Let them
take the cloaks and hoods, and put a numbered ticket upon each bundle,
handing the duplicate number to the lady or gentleman owning it.

It is best to have the supper-room upon the same floor as the ball room.
The light dresses, worn upon such occasions, suffer severely in passing
up and down a crowded staircase.

Have a number of double cards written or printed with a list of the
dances, arranged in order, upon one side, and a space for engagements
upon the other. Attach a small pencil to each. Let a waiter stand at the
entrance to the ball room, and hand a card to each guest as they pass
in.

The first strain of music must be a march; then follows a quadrille,
then a waltz. Other dances follow in any order you prefer until the
fourteenth, which should be the march which announces supper. If you
throw open the supper-room, early, and the guests go out when they wish,
the march may be omitted. Twenty-one to twenty-four dances are
sufficient. Have an interval of ten minutes after each one.

The supper-room should be thrown open at midnight, and remain open until
your last guest has departed. Let it be brilliantly lighted, and have
plenty of waiters in attendance.

There can be no rule laid down for the supper. It may be hot or heavily
iced. It may consist entirely of confectionary, or it may include the
bill of fare for a hotel table. One rule you must observe; have
abundance of everything. Other entertainments may be given upon
economical principles, but a ball cannot. Light, attendance, supper,
every detail must be carefully attended to, and a ball must be an
expensive luxury.

At a ball-supper every one stands up. The waiters will hand refreshment
from the tables to the gentlemen, who, in turn, wait upon the ladies.

You must bring forth your whole array of smiles, when you perform the
part of hostess in a ball room. As your guests will come dropping in at
all hours, you must hover near the door to greet each one entering.
There will be many strangers amongst the gentlemen. Miss G. will bring
her fiancée. Miss L., her brother, just returned, after ten years'
absence, from India. Miss R. introduces her cousin, in the city for a
week. Miss M., as a belle, will, perhaps, take the liberty of telling
some ten or twelve of her most devoted admirers where she may be seen on
the evening of your ball, and, though strangers, they will, one after
another, bow over your hand. To each and every one you must extend the
amiable greeting due to an invited guest. If you are the only lady of
the house, your duties will, indeed, be laborious. You must be
everywhere at the same moment. Not a guest must pass unwelcomed. You
must introduce partners to all the wall-flowers. You must see that every
set is made up before the music commences. Each guest must be introduced
to a proper partner for every dance, and not one frown, one pettish
word, one look of fatigue, one sigh of utter weariness must disturb your
smiling serenity. You must be ready to chat cheerfully with every bore
who detains you, when crossing the room, to make up a set of quadrilles
in a minute's time; listen patiently to the sighing lover, whose fair
one is engaged fifty times during twenty dances; secure a good dancer
for each longing belle; do the same for the beaux; yet you must never be
hurried, worried, or fatigued.

If there are several ladies, a mother and two or three daughters, for
instance, divide the duties. Let one receive the guests, another arrange
the sets, a third introduce couples, and a fourth pair off the talkers.
A brother or father will be a treasure in a ball room, as the standing
of sets can be better managed by a gentleman than a lady.

None of the ladies who give the ball should dance until every fair guest
has a partner.

One of your duties will be to see that no young ladies lose their supper
for want of an escort to ask them to go out. You may give the hint to an
intimate gentleman friend, if there is no brother or father to take the
duty, introduce him to the disconsolate damsel, and send her off happy.
If all the guests go to the supper-room when it is first thrown open,
you must be the last to leave the ball room. For the hostess to take the
lead to the supper-room, leaving her guests to pair off, and follow as
they please, is in very bad taste.

If you announce supper by a march, many of your guests will remain in
the ball room, to promenade, avoid the crowd at the first table, and
indulge in a tête-à-tête conversation. These will afterwards go out, in
pairs, when the first crush in the refreshment-room is over.

If, by accident or negligence, you miss an introduction to any of your
gentlemen guests, you may still speak to them if you wish. It is your
privilege as hostess to introduce yourself, and invite any gentleman to
dance with you, or offer to introduce him to a partner. In the latter
case he ought to mention his name, but if he omits to do so, you may ask
it.

There has been a custom introduced in some of our large cities lately,
which is an admirable one for a private ball. It is to hire, for the
evening, a public hall. This includes the dressing-room, supper-room,
every comfort, and saves you from the thousand annoyances which are
certain to follow a ball in a private house. You hire the hall and other
rooms, the price including light, hire a band of music, and order a
supper at a confectioners, hiring from his establishment all the china,
glass, and silver you will want. In this case you must enclose in every
invitation a ticket to admit your friend's party, to prevent loungers
from the street coming in, uninvited.

You will, perhaps, find the actual outlay of money greater, when you
thus hire your ball room, but you will save more than the difference in
labor, annoyance, and the injury to your house. You secure a better room
than any parlor, you have the floor waxed and polished without the
trouble of taking up your carpets. You save all the dreadful labor of
cleaning up the house the next day, as well as that of preparation.

You can, if you wish, invite a few friends to a late dinner with you,
and all proceed to the ball room together. You must be the first to
enter the room, the last to leave it, and every duty is the same as if
you were at home; the ball room is, in fact, your own house, for the
evening.

If you wish your guests to come in costume for a fancy ball, name the
character of the entertainment in your invitation.



BALL ROOM ETIQUETTE.

FOR THE GUEST.


As in every other case where hospitality is extended to you by
invitation, you must send your answer as soon as possible, accepting or
declining the civility.

In preparing a costume for a ball, choose something very light. Heavy,
dark silks are out of place in a ball room, and black should be worn in
no material but lace. For a married lady, rich silk of some light color,
trimmed with flowers, lace, or tulle; white silk plain, or lace over
satin, make an exquisite toilette. Jewels are perfectly appropriate;
also feathers in the _coiffure_.

For the young lady, pure white or light colors should be worn, and the
most appropriate dress is of some thin material made over silk, white,
or the same color as the outer dress. Satin or velvet are entirely out
of place on a young lady. Let the _coiffure_ be of flowers or ribbons,
never feathers, and but very little jewelry is becoming to an unmarried
lady. All ladies must wear boots or slippers of satin, white, black, or
the color of the dress. White are the most appropriate; black, the most
becoming to the foot. White kid gloves, full trimmed, a fine lace
trimmed handkerchief, and a fan, are indispensable. Be very careful,
when dressing for a ball, that the hair is firmly fastened, and the
_coiffure_ properly adjusted. Nothing is more annoying than to have the
hair loosen or the head-dress fall off in a crowded ball room.

Your first duty, upon entering the room, is to speak to your hostess.
After a few words of greeting, turn to the other guests.

At a private ball, no lady will refuse an introduction to a gentleman.
It is an insult to her hostess, implying that her guests are _not
gentlemen_. It is optional with the lady whether to continue or drop the
acquaintance after the ball is over, but for that evening, however
disagreeable, etiquette requires her to accept him for _one_ dance, if
she is disengaged, and her hostess requests it. At a public ball, it is
safest to decline all introductions made by the master of ceremonies,
though, as before, such acquaintances are not binding after the evening
is over.

Be very careful how you refuse to dance with a gentleman. A prior
engagement will, of course, excuse you, but if you plead fatigue, or
really feel it, do not dance the set with another gentleman; it is most
insulting, though sometimes done. On the other hand, be careful that you
do not engage yourself twice for the same quadrille. In a polka or
valse, you may do this, saying, "I will dance the second half with you,
but have a prior engagement for the first." Then, after a few rounds
with your first partner, say to him that you are engaged for the
remainder of the dance, resume your seat, and your second partner will
seek you.

Let your manner in a ball room be quiet. It looks very badly to see a
lady endeavoring to attract attention by her boisterous manner, loud
talking, or over-active dancing. Do not drag through dances as if you
found them wearisome; it is an insult to your partner, but while you are
cheerful and animated, be lady-like and dignified in your deportment.

At the end of each dance, your partner will offer his arm, and conduct
you to a seat; then bow, and release him from further attendance, as he
may be engaged for the next dance.

When invited to dance, hand your ball card to the gentleman, who will
put his name in one of the vacant places.

If you wish to go to the supper-room, accept the invitation that will be
made, after the dances whilst it is open, but do not remain there long.
You may be keeping your escort from other engagements.

If you are accompanied by a gentleman, besides your father or brother,
remember he has the right to the first dance, and also will expect to
take you in to supper. Do not let any one else interfere with his
privilege.

If you wish, during the evening, to go to the dressing-room to arrange
any part of your dress, request the gentleman with whom you are dancing
to escort you there. He will wait for you at the door, and take you back
to the ball-room. Do not detain him any longer than is necessary. Never
leave the ball room, for any such purpose, alone, as there are always
gentlemen near and round the door, and it looks very badly to see a
lady, unattended, going through a crowd of gentlemen.

It is best at a ball, to dance only every other dance, as over-fatigue,
and probably a flushed face, will follow too much dancing. Decline the
intermediate ones, on the plea of fatigue, or fear of fatigue.

Never go into the supper-room with the same gentleman twice. You may go
more than once, if you wish for an ice or glass of water, (surely no
lady wants two or three _suppers_,) but do not tax the same gentleman
more than once, even if he invites you after each dance.

No lady of taste will carry on a flirtation in a ball room, so as to
attract remark. Be careful, unless you wish your name coupled with his,
how you dance too often with the same gentleman.

If you are so unfortunate as, forgetting a prior engagement, to engage
yourself to two gentlemen for the same dance, decline dancing it
altogether, or you will surely offend one of them.

Never press forward to take the lead in a quadrille, and if others, not
understanding the figures, make confusion, try to get through without
remark. It is useless to attempt to teach them, as the music, and other
sets, will finish the figure long before you can teach and dance it.
Keep your temper, refrain from all remark, and endeavor to make your
partner forget, in your cheerful conversation, the annoyances of the
dance.

There is much that is exhilarating in the atmosphere of a ball room. The
light, music, company, and even dancing itself, are all conducive to
high spirits; be careful that this flow of spirits does not lead you
into hoydenism and rudeness. Guard your actions and your tongue, that
you may leave the room as quietly and gracefully as you enter it.

Avoid confidential conversation in a ball room. It is out of season, and
in excessively bad taste.

Be modest and reserved, but avoid bashfulness. It looks like a
school-girl, and is invariably awkward.

Never allow your partner, though he may be your most intimate friend, to
converse in a low tone, or in any way assume a confidential or
lover-like air at a ball. It is in excessively bad taste, and gives
annoyance frequently, as others suppose such low-toned remarks may refer
to them.

Dance as others do. It has a very absurd look to take every step with
dancing-school accuracy, and your partner will be the first one to
notice it. A quadrille takes no more steps than a graceful walk.

Never stand up to dance in a quadrille, unless you are perfectly
familiar with the figures, depending upon your partner to lead you
through. You will probably cause utter confusion in the set, annoy the
others forming it, and make yourself appear absurd.

No young lady should go to a ball, without the protection of a married
lady, or an elderly gentleman.

Never cross a ball room alone.

Never remain in a ball room until all the company have left it, or even
until the last set. It is ill-bred, and looks as if you were
unaccustomed to such pleasures, and so desirous to prolong each one.
Leave while there are still two or three sets to be danced. Do not
accept any invitation for these late dances, as the gentleman who
invites you may find out your absence too late to take another partner,
and you will thus deprive him of the pleasure of dancing.


PLACES OF AMUSEMENT.


Do not accept an invitation to visit any place of public amusement, with
a gentleman with whom you are but slightly acquainted, unless there is
another lady also invited. You may, as a young lady, go with a relative
or your fiancée, without a chaperon, but not otherwise.

Having received an invitation which it is proper for you to accept,
write an answer immediately, appointing an hour for your escort to call
for you, and be sure that you are ready in good season. To arrive late
is not only annoying to those near your seat, whom you disturb when you
enter, but it is ill-bred; you will be supposed to be some one who is
unable to come early, instead of appearing as a lady who is mistress of
her own time.

If the evening is cloudy, or it rains, your escort will probably bring a
carriage; and let me say a few words here about entering and leaving a
carriage.

How to get in is difficult, but of less importance than getting out;
because if you stumble in, no one sees you, but some one who may happen
to be in the carriage; but how to get out is so important, that I will
illustrate it by a short diplomatic anecdote:--

"The Princess of Hesse-Darmstadt," says M. Mercy d'Argenteau, an
ambassador of the last century, "having been desired by the Empress of
Austria to bring her three daughters to court, in order that her
Imperial Majesty might choose one of them for a wife to one of her sons,
drove up in her coach to the palace gate. Scarcely had they entered the
presence, when, before even speaking to them, the empress went up to the
second daughter, and, taking her by the hand, said, 'I choose this young
lady.' The mother, astonished at the suddenness of her choice, inquired
what had actuated it. 'I watched the young ladies get out of their
carriage,' said the empress. 'Your eldest daughter stepped on her dress,
and only saved herself from falling by an awkward scramble; the youngest
jumped from the coach to the ground, without touching the steps; the
second, just lifting her dress in front, so as she descended to show the
point of her shoe, calmly stepped from the carriage to the ground,
neither hurriedly nor stiffly, but with grace and dignity: she is fit to
be an empress; her eldest sister is too awkward, her youngest too
wild.'"

THE THEATRE--Here you must wear your bonnet, though you may throw aside
your cloak or shawl, if you desire it. Your escort will pass to your
seats first, and then turn and offer his hand to lead you to your own.
Once seated, give your attention entirely to the actors whilst the
curtain is up--to your companion when it is down.

Do not look round the house with your glass. A lady's deportment should
be very modest in a theatre. Avoid carefully every motion, or gesture
that will attract attention. To flirt a fan, converse in whispers,
indulge in extravagant gestures of merriment or admiration, laugh loudly
or clap your hands together, are all excessively vulgar and unlady-like.
Never turn your head to look at those seated behind you, or near you.

If you speak to your companion while the curtain is up, lower your
voice, that you may not disturb others interested in the conversation on
the stage.

THE OPERA--Here you should wear full dress, an opera cloak, and either a
head-dress, or dressy bonnet of some thin material. Your gloves must be
of kid, white, or some very light tint to suit your dress. Many dress
for the opera as they would for the theatre; but the beauty of the house
is much enhanced by each lady contributing her full dress toilette to
the general effect.

If you go to the dressing-room, leave your hood and shawl in the care of
the woman in waiting, whom you must fee when she returns them to you.

If you do not wish to go to the dressing-room, allow your escort to take
off your shawl or cloak, and throw it over the back of the seat. As your
opera cloak must be light enough to keep on all the evening, though you
may throw it open, you must wear over it a heavier cloak or a shawl.
Throw this off in the lobby, just before you enter your box. Your gloves
you must keep on all the evening.

Avoid handling the play bills, as the printing ink will soil your gloves
in a few minutes, making your hands appear very badly for the rest of
the evening.

You should be in your seat at the opera before the overture commences.

Never converse during the performance. Even the lowest toned remark
will disturb a real lover of music, and these will be near you on all
sides. Exclamations of admiration, "Exquisite!" "Beautiful!" or
"Lovely!" are in the worst taste. Show your appreciation by quiet
attention to every note, and avoid every exclamation or gesture.

In our new opera houses there are rooms for promenade, and between the
acts your escort may invite you to walk there. You may accept the
invitation with perfect propriety. He will leave the box first and then
offer his hand to you. In the lobby take his arm, and keep it until you
return to the box. If you have taken your cloak or shawl to your seat,
leave them there during your promenade. Return to your seat when the
gong sounds the recall, that you may not disturb others after the next
act commences.

In walking up and down in the promenading saloon, you may pass and
repass friends. Bow the first time you meet them, but not again.

If you meet your gentlemen friends there, bow, but do not stop to speak.
They may join you for once round the room, then allow them to leave you.
Your escort will feel justly offended if you allow any other gentlemen
to engross your attention entirely when he has invited you to the
entertainment.

CONCERTS--Here, as at the opera, you may wear a bonnet or not, as you
will. Go early to the hall, unless you have secured a seat, and then, be
in time for the first song. If you are unavoidably late, enter quietly,
and take a seat near the door. It is very rude to push forward to the
front of the hall, and either crowd those upon the benches, or force
some gentleman to offer you his place. If the hall is so crowded that
even the back seats are full, and a gentleman offers you his place, you
should thank him before accepting it.

Again, I repeat, do not converse, or disturb those around you by
exclamations or gesticulations.

LECTURES--Two ladies may attend a lecture, unaccompanied by a gentleman,
without attracting attention.

The dress, bonnet, and cloak, worn in the street, should be worn in a
lecture-room, as these are, by no means, occasions for full dress.

If you return at an early hour from any place of amusement, invite your
escort into the house upon your arrival there, and lay aside your bonnet
and shawl. If you keep them on, he will conclude that you expect him to
shorten his visit. If it is late when you reach home, he will probably
decline your invitation to enter. If, however, he accepts it, do not lay
aside your shawl, and he will soon leave you.

If he asks permission to call in the morning, you must, unless prevented
by an imperative engagement, remain at home to see him.

Upon your way home from the theatre, concert, or opera, speak warmly of
the pleasure of the evening, and, at parting, thank him for that
pleasure. Show by your manner that you have heartily enjoyed the
entertainment you owe to his civility. If you are weary, do not allow
him to see it. If disappointed, conceal that also. You will be able to
find _some_ good points in the performance; speak of these and ignore
the bad ones.

If at the theatre, opera, or in a concert-room, you see an
acquaintance, you are not expected to recognize her, unless near enough
to speak. A lady must not bow to any one, even her own sister, across a
theatre or concert-room.



ACCOMPLISHMENTS.


In the present age, when education is within the reach of all, both rich
and poor, every lady will endeavor to become, not only well educated,
but accomplished. It is not, as some will assert, a waste of time or
money. Not only the fingers, voice, and figure are improved, but the
heart and intellect will become refined, and the happiness greatly
increased.

Take the young lady after a solid basis has been laid in her mind of the
more important branches of education, and rear upon that basis the
structure of lighter education--the accomplishments. To cultivate these,
disregarding the more solid information, is to build your castle without
any foundation, and make it, not only absurd, but unsteady. The pleasure
of hearing from a lady a _cavatina_ executed in the most finished
manner, will be entirely destroyed, if her first spoken words after the
performance are vulgar, or her sentence ungrammatical.

A lady without her piano, or her pencil, her library of French, German,
or Italian authors, her fancy work and tasteful embroideries, is now
rarely met with, and it is right that such arts should be universal. No
woman is fitted for society until she dances well; for home, unless she
is perfect mistress of needlework; for her own enjoyment, unless she has
at least one accomplishment to occupy thoughts and fingers in her hours
of leisure.

First upon the list of accomplishments, comes the art of conversing
well. It is always ready. Circumstances in society will constantly throw
you into positions where you can use no other accomplishment. You will
not have a musical instrument within reach, singing would be out of
place, your fancy work at home, on many occasions, and then you can
exert your most fascinating as well as useful accomplishment, the art of
conversing well.

Little culture, unfortunately, is bestowed upon this accomplishment,
which, beyond all others, promotes the happiness of home, enlivens
society, and improves the minds of both speaker and listener. How many
excellent women are deficient in the power of expressing themselves
well, or, indeed, of expressing themselves at all! How many minds "cream
and mantle" from the want of energy to pour themselves out in words! On
the other hand, how some, equally well-intentioned, drown the very
senses in their torrent of remarks, which dashes, like a water-fall,
into a sombre pool of _ennui_ below!

One lady will enter society, well-dressed, well-looking, polite; she
does not intend to chill it by her presence; yet her absence is found a
relief. She takes her place as if she considered it sufficient to dress
and look well. She brings no stock to the community of ideas. Her eyes
return no response to the discourse which is going on. When you have
once glanced at her, she becomes a mere expletive in the company.

Another one will be found a talker. She is like a canary bird; when
others begin to speak, she hurries in her remarks, in an accompaniment.
Her voice must be uppermost; conversation becomes a contest who can
speak the most rapidly. The timid and modest retire from the
encounter--she has the field to herself. She goes on, without mercy; the
voice of a syren would fatigue, if heard continually. Others revolt at
the injustice of the monopoly, and the words fall on ears that would be
deaf if they could.

These are extreme cases; there are many other minor errors. The higher
qualities of conversation must undoubtedly be based upon the higher
qualities of the mind; then it is, indeed, a privilege to commune with
others.

To acquire the power of thus imparting the highest pleasure by
conversational powers, attention must be paid to literature. I am
supposing the solid foundation of a good education already laid, but by
literature, I do not mean only that class of it which is taught at
school.

Reading, at the present day, is too much confined to light literature. I
would not speak against this. The modern novels, and the poets of all
ages, are good reading, but let them be taken in moderation, and varied
by something more solid. Let them be the dessert to the more substantial
_dinner_ of history, travels, and works of a like nature.

Independent of the strength and polish given to the mind by a thorough
course of reading, there is another reason why a lady should devote some
portion of her time to it; she cannot do without it. She may, lacking
this, pass through life respectably, even elegantly; but she cannot take
her part in a communing with superior minds; she may enjoy, in
wondering, the radiance of their intelligence; but the wondering must be
composed, in part, of amazement at her own folly, in not having herself
sought out the treasure concealed in the fathomless depths of books. She
cannot truly enjoy society, with this art neglected. She may, for a few
brief years, be the ornament of the drawing-room; but it must be, like
many other ornaments there, in still life; she can never be the
companion of the intellectual; and the time is gone by, when women, with
all their energies excited, will be contented to be the mere plaything
of brother, husband, or father.

Still it is not to the erudite, nor to the imaginative only, that it is
given to please in conversation.

The art of imparting our ideas easily and elegantly to others, may be
improved by ourselves, if there are opportunities of mingling in good
society, with little study. The mind must first be cultivated; but it
should not abash those who are conscious of moderate talents, or
imperfect cultivation, from taking a due part in conversation, on
account of their inferiority. It is a very different thing to shine and
to please; to shine in society is more frequently attempted than
compassed: to please is in the power of all. The effort to shine, when
fruitless, brings a certain disgrace, and engenders mortification; all
good people are inclined to take the will for the deed, when they see a
desire to please. A gentle, deferential, kind manner, will disarm even
the most discerning from criticising too severely the deficiencies of
the inexperienced; confidence, disrespect of others, volubility,
eagerness to dispute, must irritate the self-love of others, and produce
an averseness to acknowledge talent or information, where they may even
happen to exist.

It is wiser and safer for a young lady, in general, to observe the good,
old-fashioned rule of being addressed first; but then she must receive
the address readily, meeting it half way, repaying it by enlarging a
little upon the topic thus selected, and not sinking into a dull
silence, the moment after a reply is given. Some young ladies start, as
if thunderstruck, when spoken to, and stare as if the person who pays
them that attention, had no right to awaken them from their reverie.
Others look affronted, possibly from shyness, and begin a derogatory
attack upon the beauty of their dress by twitching the front breadth--or
move from side to side, in evident distress and consternation. Time
remedies these defects; but there is one less curable and less
endurable--that of pertness and flippancy--the loud remarks and
exclamations--the look of self-sufficiency and confidence. But these
offensive manifestations spring from some previous and deep-seated
defects of character, and are only to be repelled by what, I fear, they
will frequently encounter--the mortification of inspiring disgust.

Neither is the lengthy, prosy, didactic reply, consistent with the
submission and simplicity of youth; egotism, and egotism once removed,
that is, the bringing into the topic one's own family and relations, are
also antidotes to the true spirit of conversation. In general, it is
wiser, more in good taste, safer, more becoming, certainly more in
accordance with good breeding, to avoid talking of persons. There are
many snares in such topics; not merely the danger of calumniating, but
that of engendering a slippery conscience in matters of fact. A young
girl, shy and inexpert, states a circumstance; she feels her deficiency
as a narrator, for the power of telling a story, is a power to be
acquired only by practice. She is sometimes tempted to heighten a little
the incidents, in order to get on a little better, and to make more
impression. She must of course defend her positions, and then she perils
the sanctity of truth. Besides, few things narrow the intellect more
than dwelling on the peculiarities, natural or incidental, of that small
coterie of persons who constitute our world.

It is, in general, a wise rule, and one which will tend much to insure
your comfort through life, to avoid disclosures to others of family
affairs. I do not mean to recommend reserve, or art; to friends and
relations, too great frankness can hardly be practised; but, with
acquaintance, the less our own circumstances are discussed, the happier,
and the more dignified will our commerce with them continue. On the same
principle, let the concerns of others be touched upon with delicacy, or,
if possible, passed over in silence; more especially those details which
relate to strictly personal or family affairs. Public deeds are, of
course, public property. But personal affairs are private; and there is
a want of true good breeding, a want of consideration and deference, in
speaking freely of them, even if your friend is unconscious of the
liberty taken.

It seems paradoxical to observe that the art of listening well forms a
part of the duty of conversation. To give up the whole of your attention
to the person who addresses himself to you, is sometimes a heavy tax,
but it is one which we must pay for the privileges of social life, and
an early practice will render it an almost involuntary act of good
breeding; whilst consideration for others will give this little
sacrifice a merit and a charm.

To listen well is to make an unconscious advance in the power of
conversing. In listening we perceive in what the interest, in what the
failure of others consists; we become, too, aware of our own
deficiencies, without having them taught through the medium of
humiliation. We find ourselves often more ignorant than we could have
supposed possible. We learn, by a very moderate attention to the sort of
topics which please, to form a style of our own. The "art of
conversation" is an unpleasant phrase. The power of conversing well is
least agreeable when it assumes the character of an _art_.

In listening, a well-bred lady will gently sympathize with the speaker;
or, if needs must be, differ, as gently. Much character is shown in the
act of listening. Some people appear to be in a violent hurry whilst
another speaks; they hasten on the person who addresses them, as one
would urge on a horse--with incessant "Yes, yes, very good--indeed--
proceed!" Others sit, on the full stare, eyes fixed as those of an owl,
upon the speaker. Others will receive every observation with a little
hysterical giggle.

But all these vices of manner may be avoided by a gentle attention and
a certain calm dignity of manner, based upon a reflective, cultivated
mind.

Observation, reading, and study, will form the groundwork for good
powers of conversation, and the more you read, study, and see, the more
varied and interesting will be your topics.

A young lady should consider music as one branch of her education,
inferior, in importance, to most of those studies which are pointed out
to her, but attainable in a sufficient degree by the aid of time,
perseverance, and a moderate degree of instruction. Begun early, and
pursued steadily, there is ample leisure in youth for the attainment of
a science, which confers more cheerfulness, and brings more pleasure
than can readily be conceived.

A young lady should be able to play with taste, correctness, and
readiness, upon the general principle that a well educated woman should
do all things well. This, I should suppose, is in the power of most
persons; and it may be attained without loss of health, of time, or any
sacrifice of an important nature. She should consider it as an
advantage, a power to be employed for the gratification of others, and
to be indulged with moderation and good sense for her own resource, as a
change of occupation.

Consider in this light, music is what Providence intended it to be--a
social blessing. The whole creation is replete with music,--a benignant
Power has made the language of the feathered tribe harmony; let us not
suppose that He condemns his other creatures to silence in the song.

Music has an influence peculiar to itself. It can allay the irritation
of the mind; it cements families, and makes a home, which might
sometimes be monotonous, a scene of pleasant excitement. Pursued as a
recreation, it is gentle, rational, lady-like. Followed as a sole
object, it loses its charm, because we perceive it is then over-rated.
The young lady who comes modestly forward, when called upon as a
performer, would cease to please, were she, for an instant, to assume
the air and confidence of a professional musician. There is a certain
style and manner--confined now to second-rate performers, for the
highest and most esteemed dispense with it--there is an effort and a
dash, which disgust in the lady who has bad taste enough to assume them.

And, whilst I am on this topic, let me remark that there is a great deal
in the _choice_ of music, in the selection of its character, its
suitability to your feelings, style, and taste, and this especially with
respect to vocal music.

There is no doubt that a good Italian style is the best for instruction,
and that it produces the most careful and accomplished singers. Suppose
a case. Your parents, most fair reader, have paid a high price to some
excellent professor, to instruct you--and, with a fair ear, and a
sufficient voice, you have been taught some of those elaborate songs
which are most popular at the opera. A party is assembled--music is one
of the diversions. Forth you step, and, with a just apprehension of the
difficulties of your task, select one of those immortal compositions
which the most eminent have made their study; you execute it
wonderfully, only just falling a _little_ short of all the song should
be; only just provoking a comparison, in every mind, with a high
standard, present in the memory of every cultivated musician near you. A
cold approval, or a good-natured "bravo!" with, believe me, though you
do not hear it, a thorough, and, often, expressed conviction that you
had better have left the thing alone, follows the effort which has
merely proclaimed the fact that, spite of time and money spent upon the
cultivation of your voice, you are but a second-rate singer.

But, choose a wiser, a less pretending, a less conspicuous path. Throw
your knowledge into compositions of a less startling, less aspiring
character. Try only what you can compass. Be wise enough not to proclaim
your deficiencies, and the critics will go away disarmed, even if they
are not charmed. But if there be _any_ voice, _any_ feeling, _any_
science, the touching melody, made vocal by youth and taste, will obtain
even a far higher degree of encomium than, perhaps, it actually merits.
You will please--you will be asked to renew your efforts. People will
not be afraid of cadenzas five minutes long, or of bravuras, every note
of which makes one hope it may be the last.

It is true that, to a person who loves music, the performance of one of
the incomparable songs of Bellini, Rosini, Flotow, or Mozart, is an
actual delight--but; when attempted by a young amateur, it should be,
like many other delights, confined to the private circle, and not
visited upon society in general.

Do not suppose that I mean to recommend poor music, or feeble,
ephemeral compositions. What is good need not, of necessity, be always
difficult. Ballad music is rich in songs adapted for the private
performer--and there are many, in Italian, of great beauty, which,
though they would not be selected for a concert-room, or for brilliant
display, are adapted for ladies.

Music is the greatest, best substitute for conversation. It has many
merits, in this light. It can never provoke angry retort; it can never
make enemies; it can injure no one's character by slander; and in
playing and singing one can commit no indiscretion.

Music is a most excellent amusement, and, in society, an indispensable
one. It aids conversation by occasionally interrupting it for a short
period, to be renewed with a new impetus. It makes the most delightful
recreation for the home circle, varying the toil and trouble of the
father's or husband's working day, by the pleasures of the evening made
by music's power to glide smoothly and swiftly.

There are but few persons who are entirely without a love for music,
even if they do not understand it. They will be borne along upon the
waves of a sweet melody to high, pure thoughts, often to delicious
memories.

The piano is, at the present day, the most popular instrument in
society. The harp has ceased to be fashionable, though it is sometimes
heard. The latter is a most beautiful accompaniment for the voice, but
requires a large room, as, in a small one, it will sound stringy and
harsh.

The guitar, while it makes a very pleasant accompaniment for the voice,
has also the advantage of being easily carried from place to place.

It requires as much judgment to select proper instrumental pieces for a
parlor performance, as you would display in a choice of songs. Page
after page of black, closely printed notes, will drive those who see
them from the piano. They may be executed in the most finished style,
but they are not suited to general society. In their place, for
practice, or for a musical soirée, where every one puts forth her best
musical powers, they are appropriate, and will give pleasure, but they
are not suited for a mixed party. When asked to play, choose, if you
will, a brilliant, showy piece, but let it be short. It is better still
to make no attempt at display, but simply try to please, selecting the
music your own judgment tells you is best suited to your audience.

Avoid the loud, thumping style, and also the over-solemn style.

Be sure, before you accept any invitation to play, that you know
perfectly the piece you undertake. It is better to play the simplest
airs in a finished, faultless manner, than to play imperfectly the most
brilliant variations.

Avoid movement at the piano. Swinging the body to and fro, moving the
head, rolling the eyes, raising the hands too much, are all bad tricks,
and should be carefully abstained from.

With respect to drawing, modeling, or any pursuits of the same nature,
so much depends on taste and opportunity, and they are so little the
accomplishments of society that they require but few of those
restrictions which music, in its use and abuse, demands. Drawing, like
music, should be cultivated early. Its advantages are the habits of
perseverance and occupation, which it induces; and the additional
delight which it gives to the works, both of nature and of art. Like
music, it gives independence--independence of society. The true lover of
the arts has a superiority over the indifferent, and, if she be not
better prepared for society, is much better fitted for retirement than
those who are not so happily endowed with tastes, when in moderation, so
innocent and beneficial.

There is no accomplishment more graceful, pleasing, healthy, and
lady-like, than that of riding well. Avoiding, at the same time,
timidity and the "fast" style, keeping within the bounds of elegant
propriety, gracefully yielding to the guidance of your escort, and
keeping your seat easily, yet steadily, are all points to be acquired.

To ride well is undoubtedly an admirable qualification for a lady, as
she may be as feminine in the saddle as in the ball room or home circle.
It is a mistaken idea to suppose that to become an accomplished
horse-woman a lady must unsex herself. But she must have a reserve in
her manner, that will prevent contamination from the intercourse which
too much riding may lead to. To hunt, or follow the field sports, in a
pursuit which is the track of blood, disgusts the true admirer of gentle
breeding. And such diversions will certainly result in a coarseness of
manner and expression, growing upon the fair equestrian slowly but
surely. A harsh voice, loud tone, expressions suited only to manly lips,
but unconsciously copied, will follow her devotion to the unfeminine
pursuit.

Nothing is more revolting than a woman who catches the tone and
expressions of men. To hear the slang of jockeyism from female lips, is
very offensive, yet ladies who mix in field sports are liable, nay,
almost certain, to fall into a style of conversation which is ten times
worse than the coarsest terms from the lips of a man. Instances there
are, of the fairest of our sex, from a fondness for such diversions, and
a habitual participation in such society, becoming hard, bold, and
disgusting, even whilst retaining all their female loveliness of person.

A lady, unless she lives in the most retired parts of the country,
should never ride alone, and even then she will be awkwardly placed, in
case of accident, without an escort. In the cities, not only is it
unfeminine, but positively dangerous, for a lady to ride unaccompanied
by a gentleman, or a man servant.

Although it is impossible, within the limits of this little volume, to
give many hints upon riding, a few may not be amiss. Like many other
accomplishments, a teacher is necessary, if you wish to attain
perfection, and no written directions can make you a finished
horse-woman, unless you have had tuition and practice.

1. In mounting you are desired, gentle Amazon, to spring gracefully into
your saddle, with the slight assistance of a hand placed beneath the
sole of the shoe, instead of scrambling uncouthly to your "wandering
throne," as Miss Fanshawe wittily calls it, from a high chair, as is
frequently done by those who have not been properly instructed. To mount
in the orthodox manner, you should stand nearly close to the horse,
level with the front of the saddle, and taking the reins slackly in your
right hand, you should place that hand on the nearest pommel, to secure
your balance in rising, and with your left hand gather up the front of
the habit, so as to leave the feet clear. The gentleman should place
himself firmly, near, but not so near to you as to impede your rising,
and with the same view must hold his head well back, as should he lose
his hat from a whisk of your habit the effect produced is not good. You
should then present your left foot, and the gentleman placing one hand
beneath its sole, and the other above, so as to possess a safe hold,
should, with nice judgment, give just such assistance as will enable you
easily, with a spring, to vault gracefully into the saddle. You will
then arrange your right leg comfortably over the pommel, your cavalier
will then place your left foot in the stirrup and arrange the flow of
the habit-skirt, and all is complete. All this, though so seemingly
simple and easy, requires some little practice to effect neatly and
gracefully.

2. Secondly, when riding with a gentleman, remember that you are best
placed on the _left_ side; because in that position the graceful flow of
your habit is seen to the greatest advantage, while it does not
inconvenience the gentleman by getting entangled with his stirrup, nor
does it receive the splashes of his horse.

3. But when you have a double attendance of cavaliers, if you be at all
a timid rider, it may become discreet to "_pack_" you (forgive the
homely phrase) between the two, since, in this position, you are the
most thoroughly protected from your own horse's shying, or from other
horses or vehicles approaching you too closely, being thus forced to
take that part of the road to which the better judgment of your
companions inevitably guides you. If you be an accomplished equestrian,
you will prefer being outside, and (as has been said) to the left.

Sit erect in the middle of your saddle, turning your face full towards
the head of your horse. Cling as closely as possible to the saddle, but
avoid stooping forward, or using your hands to keep you in your seat.
Nervous motions on horseback are not only ungraceful, but dangerous, as
your horse will not make any allowance for the delicacy of your nerves,
and may prove his objections to a jerking hand, or a twitching rein, in
a most decided and disagreeable manner.

The riding-dress, or habit, is best made to fit the figure tightly, with
tight sleeves. It may be open in the front, over a neatly fitting
chemisette, or buttoned close to the throat, with a neat linen collar
and cuffs. The loose sacque is ungraceful, but a basque is most becoming
on horseback. Gauntlet gloves, of leather, are the most suitable, and
must be loose enough to give your hand perfect freedom, yet not so loose
as to interfere with its motions. Do not wear the skirt too long; it
will be dangerous in case of accident, and it may prove annoying to your
horse. Your habit must be made of a material sufficiently heavy to hang
gracefully, and not move too much with the wind. For a winter habit, a
warmly-lined basque, trimmed at the throat and hands with fur, is an
elegant and appropriate dress, and a round cap of the same cloth as the
habit, with a band, and pieces to cover the ears, of fur to match the
dress trimmings, makes a handsome and appropriate dress.

In summer, your hat should be of fine straw, and slouched to shade the
face; in winter, of felt, or, if you prefer, a close cap of cloth. The
hat may be trimmed with feathers or knots of ribbon, and the shape
should be one to protect the complexion, at the same time graceful and
becoming.

Avoid any display in a riding dress. Choose a material of some dark or
neutral tint, and never use showy trimmings.

Curls, or any flowing loose style of wearing the hair, will be found
exceedingly troublesome on horseback. Arrange it neatly and compactly
under your hat, for if a stray curl or lock annoys you, or is blown
across your eyes by the wind, your hands will be too fully occupied to
remedy the difficulty.

Your whip should be light and small, tasteful if you will, but not
showy.

At the period for which these hints are intended, the Modern Languages
should form a portion of acquirement. As in music, an intelligent and
assiduous girl may, I believe, acquire an adequate degree of proficiency
in French, German, and Italian, without having been abroad, though a
foreign tour will be of the greatest use in the acquisition of the
accent and niceties of each tongue. With respect to French, it is no
doubt essential to comfort to understand it; it is one of the attributes
of a lady to speak it well; still, it is not indispensable to speak it
so well that the American lady is mistaken for a Parisian. This, which
but seldom happens, can only be acquired, in most cases, by a residence
abroad. But French is thoroughly and grammatically taught in America. It
is only the habit of speaking, the idioms and niceties, which cannot be
acquired except by converse with a native.

There are hundreds of competent instructors in this country, French
ladies and gentlemen amongst the number, who form classes for
conversation and familiarizing their pupils with these very idioms.
After availing herself of such advantages, a young lady will find that a
very short residence abroad will improve and facilitate her French
conversation.

Much, however, will depend upon how you use the opportunities within
your reach. There are many opportunities of practice in large towns; and
foreigners give all facilities, by their readiness to converse, their
good-nature in listening, and in helping the beginner by kind hints. If
a young lady, with simplicity, good breeding, and good taste, endeavors
to speak whenever she has an opportunity, words will come as if by
intuition. Do not think of by-standers and lookers-on; think only of the
individual to whom you are addressing yourself. If possible, be not
abashed by one or two errors at the first plunge--swim on till you have
confidence. The effort, I grant, is great, and it may be obviated by a
foreign education; but where this is impossible, the freedom acquired
will more than repay the exertion.

In foreign literature, walk carefully, and if you have an older, wiser
head than your own to point out the best paths, improve the advantage.

One cannot help deeming it a great era in education that German is
cultivated as well as Italian and French, and that stores of literature
are opened, to vary the delights of intellect, and to give freshness and
interest to the studies of youth.

The rapture with which the works of Schiller are perused in the
original, seems to repay the hours devoted to German; and I am sure the
perusal of Tasso, or of the Aristodemo of Monti, would reward the study
of Italian, were not the acquisition of that exquisite language of
itself a source of poetic pleasure.

The modern French writers have increased an everlasting responsibility
in corrupting the sources of amusement, open to the young readers, and
it is remarkable that most of the distinguished French authors seem to
have felt that they had erred, and to have retrieved in some of their
works the tendencies of their other productions. Take for instance,
Madame de Stael; her books cannot be judged altogether; the effect of
some of her eloquent and almost incomparable writings varies in an
extraordinary degree. Whilst "Delphine" is unfit for the perusal of a
modest woman, her "L'Allemagne" is finely written throughout, and her
criticisms and analyses of German writers are full of instruction as
well as interest.

Still the works open to readers of French are numerous. The tragedies of
Corneille and Racine are forcible and finished, and should be read
because classical. The "Alzire" of Voltaire and his "Zaire" with the
dramas of Casimir de la Vigne are also worthy of perusal. It is not an
inspiriting kind of reading, but it is rich in sentiment, and perfectly
unexceptionable in moral tone.

Although the scepticism of most German writers renders this literature
dangerous to a young mind, there are fields of pure, noble writing open
in that language. The works of Schiller, for example. His mind was
originally noble, his heart good, his love to mankind, and his enquiry
after truth were sincere. In early life, he wavered; and the besetting
scepticism of the Germans dimmed, for a time, his perceptions of all
that is most sublime, as well as true, in our finite knowledge. He was
chastened--he suffered--he believed. He died an early but a bright
instance that great genius may exist with true and humble piety, and
that the mind is never so powerful as when illumined by divine light.
His works are a magnificent library in themselves--and I could almost
say, be contented to learn German and to read Schiller. Some of his
works are open to objection, his "Bride of Messina," portions of "The
Robbers," are better omitted from your collection, but "Wallenstein" and
"Maria Stuart" are noble and admirable productions. On this subject,
and, indeed, on the whole of German literature, Madame de Stael is an
excellent guide in her "L'Allemagne," to which I refer the young German
student, who is sincerely desirous of gleaning the good, and avoiding
the evil in German compositions.

Italian literature furnishes a delightful theme for comment. It is
singular that an enslaved, and, during many ages, a depraved and
degraded people, should have possessed the purest poetry, the least
exceptionable drama, in Europe. There is little to exclude, and much to
recommend, in this beautiful language. The works of Tasso abound with
high sentiment; the "Inferno" of Dante is a sublime picture of eternal
retribution, softened with most touching pictures of human woe. Happy
are those who have leisure to pursue extensively the acquisition of
Italian literature, they may read and commit to memory without fear of
an insidious meaning beneath the polished verse, or the prose which has
all the charm of poetry.

Spanish literature will require the same judicious pruning which is
necessary in French and German, but of all languages, it is the most
musical for speech, and singing.

A lady in society must, if she would not grow utterly weary in company,
know how to dance. It has been the practice among many excellent people
to represent the ball room as a "pitfall covered with flowers;" a sheet
of breaking ice; above, all gayety and motion; below, all darkness and
danger. It may be that to some minds the ball room may be replete with
temptations; but there are minds which find temptations everywhere. The
innocent may be innocent, nay, the pious may feel devout, even in a ball
room. There is nothing immoral or wrong in dancing; it is the tendency
of youth to dance--it is the first effort of a child--the first natural
recreation. It seems so natural that I confess I am always doubtful of
the sincerity of those young ladies who profess to dislike the ball
room.

In the present day, you must understand how to move gracefully through
quadrilles, to dance polka, Schottische, Varsovienne, and waltz. To
these you may add great variety of dances, each season, probably,
bringing a new one.

"Dancing," says Mr. Sheldrake, "is one of the most healthy, as well as
one of the most pleasing amusements that can be practised by the young.
If it is learned from those who are well qualified to teach it, and
practised, as it ought to be, consistently with the instructions given,
it will contribute more to improve the health, as well as the form of
the human frame, than any other exercise. For the discovery and
promulgation of the true and correct principles according to which
dancing should be taught, the world is indebted to France, a country
which has long taken the lead in the elegant arts. In France, dancing
was first raised to the dignity of a science, a royal academy being
founded for the purpose of teaching and perfecting it, in the reign of
Louis Quatorze. In this academy were trained many of the most
distinguished dancers of both sexes." One of the most celebrated, Madame
Simonet, gave the following account to Mr. Sheldrake of the mode of
instruction pursued in the academy:--"All the pupils, before they were
permitted to attempt to dance, were completely instructed in what were
called the _preparatory exercises_; that is, a system of exercises,
which endued all their limbs with strength, firmness, elasticity, and
activity; when they had acquired these properties, they began to dance.

"In these preparatory exercises, the motions were of the most simple
kind, the object being to teach the pupil, gradually and separately, all
those movements which, when combined, and rapidly executed, constitute
dancing." Madame Simonet thus described those elementary instructions,
as gone through by herself:--"She successively learned to stand flat
and firm upon both her feet, with her limbs quite straight, and the
whole person perfectly upright, but not stiff; then to lift one foot
from the ground, and to keep it so for some time without moving any part
of her body; she then replaced that foot on the ground, and raised the
other in the same manner. These simple actions were repeated till the
pupils were quite familiar with them; they were then directed to keep
the body quite erect, but not stiff, and bearing firmly upon one leg, to
raise the other from the ground, gradually and slowly, by bending the
upper joint of the limb, at the same time making the knee straight, and
putting the toe to its proper extent, but _no more_. The foot, after it
had been kept in this state for some time, was returned to the ground
from whence it was taken, and the other foot treated in the same manner;
when quite familiarized to these actions, they were directed to walk
(march, as some people will call it) slowly, performing the same motions
with the feet alternately." The exercises which followed these, were
upon the turning out of the feet, the balancing of the body, and other
attitudes, which need not be particularized.

Mr. Sheldrake gives several examples of persons trained upon these
initiatory principles to the profession of dancing, who have lived in
health to a great age. "This," says he, "is not the chance lot of a few;
for I have, through life, been accustomed to see many persons of the
same profession; I have communicated my own observations to many others,
and all have agreed in remarking, that those who follow this profession
have, very generally, excellent health, which very many of them carry
into extreme old age. This indisputable fact can only be accounted for
by supposing that the preparatory exercises which these persons go
through, are a modification of what I have called regulated muscular
tension, or action, and the early and constant practice of which lays a
firm foundation for that high health which accompanies them through
life. It is upon the same principle that a soldier is never seen with
spinal curvature, or other personal deformity, or a stage dancer of
either sex with a deformed person; it is, perhaps, impossible that such
things should exist, for the plain reason, that the exercises which they
begin to practice early in life, and continue regularly through its
whole course, render it impossible for them to become so.

"The inference to be drawn from these incontrovertible facts is, that if
we, in very early life, teach young children to practice similar
exercises, and follow them steadily afterwards, we shall confirm them in
excellent health, and prevent the accession of those evils which so
often cause deformity to the figure, and destruction to the
constitution, at later periods of life. I do not propose to make every
boy a soldier, or every girl a dancer upon the stage, but to adopt the
principles, by the application of which those persons are trained to the
successful practices of their several occupations, and so to modify
them, that they may qualify other classes of society to follow _their_
different pursuits with equal success; and I am not without hopes that
this undertaking will contribute something towards producing this
desirable effect."

Dancing is an exercise which has been practiced by mankind from the
most remote ages. With the Egyptians, Assyrians, and Persians, the
founders of the three great empires of the ancient world, dancing was
the favorite exercise or accomplishment, and the practice was not less
prevalent among their successors in power and importance, the Greeks and
Romans. The Jews, also, we learn from Scripture, were strongly attached
to the exercise at all periods of their history.

At the present day, almost every people that exist, whether barbarous or
civilized, has its own form of dancing. It is this universality of the
exercise that makes dancing a subject of importance. Being so
extensively practiced, it must be the instrument either of good or evil
to the human race.

It is one of the most healthful and elegant amusements, and cannot be
too highly recommended. Among a rude and dissolute people it may
degenerate into something worthy of condemnation; but all the blessings
we have are similarly liable to abuse, and it would be most unjust to
condemn a cheerful domestic amusement, merely because it has, at times,
been degraded by people of low, vulgar, immoral tastes. By all
physicians, dancing, when pursued in moderation, is recommended as
highly conducive to bodily health; and it may be truly said, that,
allied with music, nothing is more conducive to _mental_ health, more
calculated to drive away melancholy, and put the whole temper into good
humor.

Dancing is the poetry of motion. It must be performed with ease and
grace, and always with a perfect regard for propriety of movement.

As an art it is taught by professed masters; and one of the leading
rules given to the learner is to raise and lower herself gracefully on
the elastic part of her feet, and to keep perfect time to the music.
Dancing is really a simple and elegant gliding on the toes, which bend
more or less to accommodate the steps, and prevent harsh, ungraceful
motion.

The most popular dances of the present day, are, first, the quadrille.

These are of French origin, comparatively tranquil in their character,
and generally danced once or more in every party. They are danced by
four couples, one standing on each side of a square. There are many sets
of quadrilles, the figures in each varying from the others. But there
are five figures in each set. The plain, fancy, Lancers, Polka,
Mazourka, and German, are among the most popular.

In plain quadrilles, a lady takes no steps, merely walking gracefully
through the figures, but her feet must keep perfect time to the music,
and she must know the changes of position perfectly.

A quadrille may be very properly described as a conversation dance, as
there are long pauses between the figures, when the dancers must have a
fund of small talk ready for their partners.

When moving in the figures, hold out your skirt a little with the right
hand, merely to clear the ground, and prevent the possibility of
treading upon it.

Next come the round dances, the _Valse_, Polka, Schottische,
Varsovienne, and Redowa.

The Waltz is danced both _à troistemps_ and _deuxtemps_. In the waltz,
the position is a most important point. You may so lean upon your
partner's arm, and so carry your figure, that the prudish can find but
little fault, but you can also make the dance a most immodest one. I
cannot, within the limits of my book, go into a long argument as to the
propriety of these round dances. Opinions differ, and I am not writing a
sermon, but giving, as far as is in my power, hints to ladies in
society. It is, therefore, enough for me to know that these dances are
tolerated, and that, even were I so inclined, _I_ could not exclude
them.

To return to the position. Stand a little to the right of your partner,
that, in clasping your waist, he may draw you upon his arm to his
shoulder, not his breast; the last position is awkward. By observing the
first, you have your head free; turn it a little towards the left
shoulder; need I say, never lay it upon your partner's shoulder? Throw
the head and shoulders a little back, not too much to be consistent with
easy grace, place one hand upon your partner's shoulder, and the other
in his disengaged hand. So, you are ready to start.

The waltz may be danced to very fast time, or to slow music. The last is
the most graceful, and there is not so much danger of giddiness. Grace
can only be gained by a perfect timing of the steps to the music, and
also evenness of step. It is, when properly timed with perfect step, and
easy, gliding motion, the most graceful of dances. The Germans, who
dance for the sake of _dancing_, will only allow a certain number of
waltzers on the floor at one time, and these waltz in streams, all going
down one side of the room and up the other, thus rendering collisions
impossible.

An English writer, in a recent work published on etiquette, speaks of
waltzing thus:--

"It is perhaps useless to recommend flat-foot waltzing in this country,
where ladies allow themselves to be almost hugged by their partners, and
where men think it necessary to lift a lady almost off the ground, but I
am persuaded that if it were introduced, the outcry against the
impropriety of waltzing would soon cease. Nothing can be more delicate
than the way in which a German holds his partner. It is impossible to
dance on the flat foot unless the lady and gentleman are quite free of
one another. His hand, therefore, goes no further round her waist than
to the hooks and eyes of her dress, hers, no higher than to his elbow.
Thus danced, the waltz is smooth, graceful, and delicate, and we could
never in Germany complain of our daughter's languishing on a young man's
shoulder. On the other hand, nothing is more graceless and absurd, than
to see a man waltzing on the tips of his toes, lifting his partner off
the ground, or twirling round and round with her like the figures on a
street organ. The test of waltzing in time, is to be able to stamp the
time with the left foot. The waltz is of German origin, but where it is
still danced in Germany in the original manner, (as, for instance, among
the peasants of the Tyrol,) it is a very different dance. It is there
very slow and graceful; the feet are thrown out in a single long step,
which Turveydrop, I presume, would call a _jeté_. After a few turns, the
partners waltz alone in the same step, the man keeping the time by
striking together his iron-shod heels, until with a shout and clapping
of hands he again clasps his partner and continues in the same slow
measure with her."

The position for the polka, redowa, and other round dances, should be
the same as that for the waltz, and for the steps, they can only be
acquired from a dancing teacher, and are impossible to describe
properly.

One of the most delightful accomplishments which a lady can possess, and
one which is unfortunately but little cultivated, is the art of reading
aloud well; reading with expression, taste, animation, and correctness;
and this art once acquired, let her also be able to recite well.

Long lectures may be given upon elocution, but the advice can be
condensed into two directions. First, be sure you pronounce, accent, and
enunciate every word correctly; then, throw your whole soul into the
words. Study your author carefully, that you may know precisely what he
means by each expression, and then try to bury your personal identity,
to become, for the time, the character you represent.

One of the most delightful ways to spend a social evening, is to devote
it to dramatic literature. Invite only guests who read well, or who are
really interested listeners, and select a play, or scenes from several
plays, and cast the parts among your guests. All jealousy must be put
aside, and to-night's Hamlet must condescend to direct Richard to

  "Stand by, my lord, and let the coffin pass,"

to-morrow.

After a few meetings, the peculiar talent of each reader will be
recognized, and you can select your tragedy hero, comedy hero, queen,
chambermaid, and other members of the force, with a view to the display
of each one's best powers. Vary the entertainment by reciting monologues
and dialogues. A whole play will often be found tiresome; it is best to
select several scenes, keeping up the thread of the plot, and
introducing the best characters, and leave out what is mere interlude,
and dispense with some of the subordinate characters.

Leave one end of the room entirely vacant for the readers. You will find
it more interesting to have the readers stand, and use some little
motion; the words will flow more easily, the expressions come more
forcibly if the appropriate gesture is made. Love scenes will, of
course, require delicate handling, and embracing can be easily omitted;
neither would I recommend the action of a dueling scene, or a murder,
but merely to add gesture enough to give interest to both readers and
audience.

You will find some little difficulty from bashfulness, and the "don't
like to" people at first, but soon you will discover with delight how
many of your friends possess the talent for reading well, and never knew
it themselves.

You will do well to take a few lessons in elocution, but you need not
fear to read if you have never made the accomplishment a study. With a
correct knowledge of your own language, and a love for fine writing, you
will soon read well.

Give to every part you undertake, the full effect intended by the
writer. Do not throw all your energy, your whole soul, into a leading
part at one time, and slight a subordinate character at another. If you
have but five words to read, read them as they would be spoken were you
the character you represent for the time. To hear a splendidly written,
tragic burst of passion read in a weak, whining voice, is no worse than
to have a few simple words from a servant's lips delivered with the
gesture and emphasis suited to a Medea or Lady Macbeth.

I shall be condemned by many serious and well-judging persons, if I say
one word in favor of private theatricals; yet, as it appears to me,
there are in these diversions some advantages which are not to be found
to excuse the waltz, or the polka, or the ballet, or the hunting field.
In private theatricals there is the possibility of _some_ benefit. The
study of the finest dramatists, especially of Shakespeare, is not likely
to demoralize the mind, or to cool the enthusiasm for what is good. We
can scarcely know too well those works which have tended more to form
character than any collection of any kind whatsoever.

Shakespeare, Sheridan, Bulwer,--but I cannot go through the list of fine
dramatic writers whose works elevate the mind and taste. The plays of
Sheridan, Knowles, and Bulwer, are, in most instances, well adapted for
private representations--the most exquisite delineations of female
character may be found in the dramatic library, and high, pure, manly
thoughts, may be traced, line after line, to the same source.

Private theatricals should, however, be regulated with much judgment. I
see no reason to restrict too severely talent of this kind where it
exists, any more than to crush a dawning taste for the other fine arts.
What we have to do is to raise and direct it; never to let it occupy too
much time, nor to become the business of life; never to let it infringe
upon duties; never to allow it to lead us into an unreasonable, and,
therefore, criminal expense. Our ancestors were content to strew their
stage at the end of their halls with rushes, and to hang up the name of
the scene, instead of a scene, before each act. The best preparations,
which generally render private theatricals both laborious and expensive,
add but little to the pleasure of the beholders, whose attention is
fixed upon the actors, and who can always see far finer scenes at a
minor theatre than at any private theatricals. Were we content with
greater simplicity in our amusements, how much vain ostentation,
heart-sickening expense, self-recrimination, and trouble, might be
avoided!

As a valid objection to private theatricals, it has been urged that they
are apt to encourage a taste for the green-room of the public theatre in
young men and boys; in women the risk is less, for few women are ever
known to go on the stage except from necessity. I own this objection to
theatricals is the greatest that can be urged. It can only be answered
in mitigation that, where there exists a taste of the kind, it is better
that it should be indulged at home, instead of at the theatre, with the
modest inmates of a well-governed house, instead of with professional
actors. Like all other amusements, the abuse is probable, but the power
of restraint rests within ourselves.

Under the same head as private theatricals may come dramatized charades
and proverbs, so much in fashion at the present time. These last have
some great advantages over the standard plays; they are better suited to
a parlor; they do not provoke comparison between the young actors, and
the favorite public idols; they require but little scenery and
arrangement; they are short; and they do not require so many subordinate
characters.

Impromptu charades and proverbs are delightful, and are the occasion for
much merriment; the mistakes, the absurd contrasts between character and
costume, the scenery--a deep, hanging wood, the court of Louis Quatorze
or the deck of a man of war, being improvised at a moment's notice, only
add to the merry enjoyment.

One rule you must observe if you join in these amusements: never to
carry your gayety into romping. Merry and laughing you may be, yet never
forget you are a lady. You may personate a newly-caught Irish
chambermaid, use the broadest brogue, wear the commonest dress, throw
yourself heartily and thoroughly into the part, losing your personal
identity almost entirely, and yet you may retain that nameless charm,
which will place you in the mind of each of the audience as a lady of
refinement.

You must also be perfectly good-natured and self-sacrificing; ready to
play the smallest parts with the same interest you would throw into the
principal ones. Try to throw out all the good points in the parts taken
by the other members of the company. If you play an insignificant part,
play it well, with all the grace you can, make the most of it, but do
not try to raise it to the first place. Yield gracefully the prominent
position to those who claim it in the plot of the play, and never try
by conspicuous dress or by play, to go beyond the position set down for
you.

Another delightful accomplishment, and one which will aid you if you are
studying drawing and painting, is that of arranging _tableaux vivants_.

Mrs. Severn gives the following hints upon this subject:

"Perhaps there is no intellectual amusement in fashionable life, the
nature of which is so little understood, as the _tableau vivant_; it
being generally considered as only a vehicle for display, whereas its
real purpose is to arrange scientifically a combination of natural
objects, so as to make a good picture according to the rules of art.

"A _tableau vivant_ is literally what its name imports--a living picture
composed of living persons; and, when skilfully arranged and seen at a
proper distance, it produces all the effect of a real picture. It is
said, that the first living picture was contrived by a profligate young
German nobleman, who having, during the absence of his father, sold one
of the celebrated pictures belonging to the old castle, which was an
heir-loom, to conceal the deficiency, placed some of his companions
behind the frame, so as to imitate the missing picture, and to deceive
his father, who passed through the room without being conscious of his
loss.

"A _tableau vivant_ may be formed in two ways: it may consist of a group
of persons, who take some well-known subject in history or fiction to
illustrate, and who form a group to tell the story according to their
own taste; or, it may be a copy, as exact as circumstances will permit,
of some celebrated picture. The first plan, it may be easily imagined,
is very rarely effective; since, as we find that even the best masters
are often months, or even years, before they can arrange a group
satisfactorily on canvas, it is not probable that persons who are not
artists should succeed in making good impromptu pictures. Indeed, it has
been observed, that artists themselves, when they have to arrange a
_tableau vivant_, always prefer copying a picture to composing one.

"Copying a real picture, by placing living persons in the positions of
the figures indicated in the picture, appears, at first sight, an easy
task enough; and the effect ought to be easily attained, as there can be
no bad drawing, and no confused light and shade, to destroy the effect
of the grouping. There are, however, many difficulties to conquer, which
it requires some knowledge of art to be aware of. Painting being on a
flat surface, every means are taken to give roundness and relief to the
figures, which qualities of course are found naturally in a _tableau
vivant_. In a picture the light is made effective by a dark shadow
placed near it; diminished lights or demi-tints are introduced to
prevent the principal light appearing a spot; and these are linked
together by artful shades, which show the outline in some places, and
hide it in others. The colors must also be carefully arranged, so as to
blend or harmonize with each other. A want of attention to these minute
points will be sufficient to destroy the effect of the finest picture,
even to those who are so unacquainted with art as to be incapable of
explaining why they are dissatisfied, except by an involuntary liking or
disliking of what they see.

"The best place for putting up a _tableau vivant_ is in a door-way,
with an equal space on each side; or, at least, some space on both sides
is necessary; and if there is a room or a passage between the door
selected for the picture and the room the company is to see it from, so
much the better, as there should be a distance of at least four yards
between the first row of the spectators and the picture. It must be
remembered that, while the tableau is being shown, nearly all the lights
must be put out in the room where the company is assembled; and,
perhaps, only one single candle, properly placed, in the intervening
space between the company and the tableau, must be left slightly to
illuminate the frame. In the above-mentioned door-way a frame, somewhat
smaller than the original picture, must be suspended, three, four, or
even five feet from the floor, as may suit the height of the door; or,
if the door is not very high, the frame may be put one or two feet
behind, to gain space; but care must be taken to fill up the opening
that would, in that case, show between the door-way and the frame; also
a piece of dark cloth ought to be put from the bottom of the frame to
the ground, to give the appearance of the picture hanging on the wall.
The most important thing is, that the chairs or tables ought to be
placed behind the frame, so that the persons who are to represent the
tableau may sit or stand as nearly in the position, with regard to the
frame, as the figures appear to do in the real picture they are trying
to imitate, and at about two feet from the frame, so that the light
which is attached to the back of the frame may fall properly on the
figures. In order to accomplish this, great study and contrivance are
required, so that the shades may fall in precisely the same places as in
the original picture; and sometimes the light is put on one side,
sometimes on the other, and often on the top; and sometimes shades of
tin or paper are put between the lights and the tableaux, to assist in
throwing a shadow over any particular part. The background is one of the
most important parts, and should be made to resemble that of the picture
as nearly as possible; if it is dark, coarse cloth absorbs the light
best; but whether it is to be black, blue, or brown, must depend on the
tint of the picture; should the background be a light one, colored
calico, turned on the wrong side, is generally used. If trees or flowers
form the background, of course real branches or plants must be
introduced to imitate those in the picture. Even rocks have been
imitated; and spun glass has often successfully represented water. A
thin, black gauze, black muslin, or tarlatan veil, should be fastened to
the top of the frame, on the _outside_ of it, through which the tableau
is to be seen.

"Care ought to be taken to conceal the peculiarities of the different
materials used in the draperies, and it is even sometimes necessary to
cover the stuffs used for the purpose with a gauze of a different color,
so as to imitate the broken and transparent colors found in most good
pictures. This, carefully attended to, will give a quietness and
simplicity to the whole, which will greatly add to the illusion."

The next subject upon the list of accomplishments, should be filled by
some words upon fancy sewing. Under this head will come--Crochet,
Knitting, Tapestry work, Embroidery, Chenille work, Netting, Canvas
work, Berlin wool work, Frame work, Braiding, Bead work, etc.

Small social gatherings will be much more entertaining, the time will
pass much more quickly, and the conversation flows more freely if the
fingers are employed with some light work.

Pretty presents--nay, beautiful ones--may be made in this way, when the
fingers would otherwise be idle, and these will have an additional value
in being the work of your own hands.

From the most remote ages needlework has been, not only a source of
pecuniary advantage for poor women, but also of pleasant pastime for the
rich. It is one of the most elegant of the imitative art, and from time
immemorial it has been an amusement for otherwise idle fingers, from the
cottage to the palace.

I have not space for a long disquisition upon the uses and pleasures of
fancy work; every woman has moments when such pretty playwork will be a
valuable recreation. The taste for fancy work increases daily, and can
be made not only ornamental, but useful. A ladies' wardrobe consists of
so many, and such varied objects, that the evenings of an entire winter
may be spent in making various useful garments, which are, at the same
time, suitable for company sewing. Opera hoods, wool shawls, sleeves,
Sontags, and other ladies' articles, may be varied by embroidering
smoking caps, slippers, or handkerchiefs for gentlemen.

Embroidering on canvas, or tapestry work, opens a large field for taste
and skill in execution. Beautiful articles for presents, chair covers,
sofa cushions, slippers, may be worked in the otherwise idle moments
spent in familiar society, and the fingers will soon acquire skill and
astonishing rapidity.

The German ladies have constantly on hand a piece of netting or other
fancy work, which they carry from place to place, and take out when
conversing; and so far from entirely engrossing their thoughts, they
chat more readily and freely with their fingers thus employed.

American ladies will find the custom worth imitating. Many tedious hours
will be smoothly, pleasantly passed, with the mind free, but the fingers
pleasantly occupied.

An evening passed in sewing or knitting, with one good reader to
entertain the industrious workers, will be found very pleasant. I have
known a circle of young people meet every week to work in this way, the
reader being changed twice or three times in the course of the evening,
and these meetings have proved so pleasant, that scarcely any member
failed to plead "prior engagement" if invited out upon the evening
appointed to read and sew.

It was formerly objected by the adversaries to mental cultivation in
women, that the acquirement of book learning would make them neglect
needlework; but so far from this being the case, the present, which is
often called the age of learning, is preëminently a working age. Never
were fingers more actively engaged than those of the rising female
generation; braiding, embroidery, Berlin work, knitting, netting, and
crochet, are all in full play. A long neglected work has been recently
revived, called by the French "La Frivolité." It is very pretty evening
work, partly because it does not impede conversation, for it may be
carried on almost without looking at it, and partly because no other
work shows to so much advantage the grace and delicacy of the hands. The
most simple form of this work was anciently known under the name of
Tatting, but that only consisted of a series of loops in a straight
line, which were used for trimming linen articles, and which was not so
pretty as La Frivolité, which has varieties which are a good imitation
of point, and may be used for collars and sleeves.

I give a few specimens of pretty work for evening sewing, and refer the
reader to "The Ladies' Handbook of Embroidery," published by G. G.
Evans, for a full, complete description of every kind of fancy work,
with specimens, patterns, and clear, plain directions.

NETTED CUFFS--These cuffs are very pretty, and easy to make. They are in
plain netting, and will require white, and five shades of scarlet wool.

Set on thirty-five stitches of the white wool. Net five rows, then take
a mesh a very little larger, and widen by netting two stitches in every
stitch. Then net with the smallest mesh the two lightest shades, one row
of each, and two rows of the other three shades. Then graduate the
shades back again to white, narrowing the first row of white with the
larger mesh. Net ten rows with the smaller mesh, widen again, repeat the
shades of red, narrow again, and finish with the five rows of white.


KNITTED OPERA CAP.

MATERIALS REQUIRED--Half an ounce of white and half an ounce of shaded
Berlin wool will be sufficient.

Cast on a hundred stitches with white wool, and knit and pearl
alternately for four rows.

_Shaded wool_--Knit one row plain; next row bring forward, and take two
together to the end.

_White wool_--Knit and pearl alternately four rows.

_Shaded wool_--Knit plain six rows.

_White wool_--Knit a row, decreasing it by taking the first two stitches
together, and the last two. Pearl a row. Knit a row, decreasing it as
before. Pearl a row.

_Shaded wool_--Knit a row, decreasing at the beginning and end. Next
row, bring forward and take two together to the end.

_White wool_--Knit a row, decreasing at both ends. Pearl a row. Knit a
row, decreasing as before. Pearl a row.


FOR THE PATTERN IN THE CENTRE OF THE CAP.

SHADED WOOL--_1st row_--Slip one. Knit two plain stitches (_a._) Wool
forward. Knit one. Wool forward. Knit two together. Knit one. Knit two
together. Repeat from (_a._)

_2nd row_--Pearled.

_3rd row_--Slip one. Knit two plain stitches (_b._) Wool forward. Knit
three plain stitches. Wool forward. Slip one. Knit two together. Pass
the slipped stitch over the knitted ones. Repeat from (_b._)

_4th row_--Pearled.

_5th row_--Slip one. Knit two plain stitches, (_c._) Wool forward. Knit
two together. Knit one. Knit two together. Wool forward. Knit one.
Repeat from (_c._)

_6th row_--Pearled.

_7th row_--Slip one. Knit two plain stitches (_d._) Wool forward. Slip
one. Knit two together. Pass the slipped stitch over the knitted ones.
Wool forward. Knit three plain stitches. Repeat from (_d._)

_8th row_--Pearled. Repeat the last eight rows.

_White wool_--Knit and pearl alternately for four rows; decrease at the
beginning and ending of the two plain rows.

_Shaded wool_--Knit one plain row; decrease at the beginning and ending.
Next row; bring the wool forward, knit two together to the end of the
row.

_White wool_--Knit and pearl alternately for four rows; decrease at the
beginning and ending of the two plain rows.

Knit eighteen plain stitches, run a piece of cotton through the
remaining sixty-two stitches. Pearl and knit alternately, decreasing at
the beginning and ending of every plain row, until you have four
stitches remaining; cast them off; then take up eighteen stitches on the
opposite sides, and work a piece to correspond; leaving forty-four
centre stitches on the cotton.

Take up the centre stitches on a needle pointed at both ends, draw the
cotton out; then pick up fourteen stitches at each end of the needle.

_Shaded wool_--Knit two plain rows.

_White wool_--Knit one plain row. Next row; wool forward, knit two
together to the end of the row.

_Shaded wool_--Knit two plain rows and cast off. Join the two points
together at the back of the cap. Fold the front at the first pattern
row, and hem it to form the scallop at the edge. Pick up eighty stitches
at the back of the cap.


AN ECONOMICAL POINT COLLAR.

It is well known that worked muslin collars, particularly if the work is
good, very soon wear out; as the work is too heavy for the muslin,
which, when it has been washed two or three times, becomes full of slits
and holes, though the work is still as good as ever. When this is the
case, cut the muslin off the work with a pair of sharp scissors, and lay
the work on the pattern of a collar cut in paper, so as to fill the
whole of the pattern. The work may be taken from two or three collars;
the arrangement of it must depend upon taste. When the cut-out work is
properly arranged, it must be tacked or basted to the paper pattern; and
this is best done with colored thread, that no mistake may arise when
the basting threads are to be drawn out. Four or six threads are then
drawn from one piece of work to another, with a needle and cotton, so as
to attach them together, and the loose threads are then overcast like
button-holes, so as to imitate the uniting threads of point lace. When
well done, with a sufficient quantity of the uniting threads, to make
the work firm, these collars are handsome, and will wash and wear well.


KNITTED VEILS.

It is now customary to knit white veils of what is called Lady Betty's
wool, for babies to put over their faces when they are carried out in
cold weather, instead of pocket-handkerchiefs, which were formerly used
for the purpose, though they were very unfit for it. Knitted veils in
black silk or worsted are also worn by grown-up persons. The veils for
babies are very simple in their construction; they consist of oblong
pieces of knitting of any width and depth that may be required, with
knitted lace at the bottom and sides, and a string case at the top. The
following pattern is the most common:

Knit and pearl alternately four rows, so that there may be two of each;
then bring forward and take two together an entire row. This pattern is
repeated through the entire veil; and it must be observed, that as many
stitches must be cast on as will make it of the necessary width. The
needles should be of the smallest size, of bone. Any lace will do; but
the following pattern, though not new, is both pretty and suitable; and
has, besides, the important recomendation of being very easy.

Cast on eleven stitches and knit a row plain, then begin the pattern.

_1st row_--Knit three; bring forward and take two together; knit one,
take two together; put the thread twice round the needle, take two
together, and knit one.

_2nd row_--Knit two, pearl one, knit one, put the thread twice round the
needle, take two together, bring forward, and knit five.

_3rd row_--Knit three, bring forward, take two together, knit one,
bring forward, knit two, pearl one, bring forward, take two together,
and knit two.

_4th row_--Knit two, bring forward, knit five, bring forward, take two
together, knit five.

_5th_ row--Knit three, bring forward, and take two together, knit the
rest plain.

_6th row_--Cast off four, and knit the rest plain.


HINTS TO CROCHET-WORKERS.

Examine carefully the form of the needle, and _try_ the hook, to
ascertain that it is perfectly smooth. Some are so sharp and ill-made as
to tear the cotton. Select those which are not of uniform thickness up
to the hook; the best are those which are thinner there than an inch
farther up. Where the needle is not proportionally fine near the hook,
it is almost impossible to keep the work even.

Chain stitch ought to be done rather loosely, as working on it
afterwards contracts it, and is apt to give it a puckered appearance. It
is often advisable to use a needle one size larger for making the chain
than for the rest of the work, especially in edgings. It will be found
much easier to work the succeeding rows when this precaution is taken.
Crochet needles should be kept in a housewife similar to those used for
ordinary needles. The slightest soil or rust should be effaced with fine
sandpaper.


ORNAMENTAL NET FOR THE HAIR.

Take two pieces of fine silk braid, scarlet or royal blue, and a No. 3
bone crochet hook.

Make a chain of eight stitches, unite the ends, and then D. C. the
first round, putting two stitches into each loop; there will now be
sixteen stitches and in the next round one long must be worked into
every stitch, and two chain between each long; the round will now
consist of forty-eight stitches, and we commence the pattern, or
diamonds.

_3rd round_--Three long, two chain, four long with two chain after each,
and these long put into every second loop; repeat.

_4th round_--Five long, two chain, five long with two chain after each,
and these long put into every second loop with the exception of the
fifth or last of them, which must skip two stitches instead of one;
repeat.

_5th round_--Seven long, two chain, seven long with two chain after
each, and each of these long put into every second stitch; repeat.

_6th round_--Five long, two chain, five long with two chain after each,
and each of these long put into every other stitch, three long, two
chain, five long again with two chain after each, and each put into
every second stitch; repeat from beginning.

_7th round_--Three long, two chain, five long with two chain after each
and worked in every third loop, five long, two chain, five long again
with two chain after each, and these long worked as aforesaid in every
third loop; repeat from beginning.

_8th round_--One long, two chain, five long with two chain after each
and these long put into every third stitch, seven long, two chain, again
five long, &c. &c.; repeat from beginning.

_9th round_--Six long with two chain after each and work in every third
stitch, (five long, twelve long with two chain after each, these long
put in every third stitch); repeat the pattern in brackets.

_10th round_--Nine long with two chain after them, these long being
worked in every second loop, (three long, two chain, nineteen long with
two chain after them, and the long worked in every second loop); repeat
the pattern in brackets.

_11th, 12th, and 13th rounds_--A long and two chain all round, and the
long being worked alternately in every second and third loop; care being
taken to bring one into the position to complete each diamond as it is
come to.

A crochet edging, begun with braid, and the last two or three rows
worked with gold twist as nearly the size of the braid as may be, and a
cord and tassels, finish off this elegant head-dress.

The cord should be run in and out through the thirteenth round. We,
however, prefer a single-crochet band of some fifty stitches long and
six or eight wide, worked in the same material as the net, to a cord,
and this band may be finished off with a piece of gold fringe instead of
tassels at the ends, or with a scallop of edging crocheted in gold
twist.


DRESS GLOVE BANDS; FULL OR FRILLED SHAPE.

Take three pieces of fine embroidery chenille, and a No. 3 bone crochet
hook.

Make a chain of about forty stitches, or one long enough to go round
the wrist; Dc one row.

_3rd row_--Two long, one chain and miss a stitch--repeat this all along.
Then one row Dc.

_6th row_--Long crochet worked _very_ loosely, so much so as to leave
these stitches _at least_ half an inch high; two stitches to be put into
every second or third loop and one in each of the others all the way
along; fasten off.

Join the chenille now on to the first row, and work a similar row or
frill to the one just directed, so that there be one on each side.

Run a narrow velvet through the holes of the third row and affix wider
velvet ends, or chenille tassels to each extremity. Finish off with a
button and loop, and flute the frill on each side over the finger to
make it set.

We need scarcely say that the chenille used should be selected to match
or agree with the evening dress, and that the velvet must match the
chenille.

These bands may be made to look very handsome by working a row of Dc
loosely and evenly along the edge of each frill with gold or silver
twist, and running a band of gold or silver braid or trimming through
the holes in the third row instead of velvet. Then small bullion tassels
to match the twist will form a suitable and elegant finish.

These bands may be worked round and slid over the hand like muffatees,
or made open as we have directed and buttoned, like the glove. The
buttons should be covered with crochet, and the loops crocheted.


KNITTED UNDER HABIT SHIRT.

Three ounces of Three thread White Fleecy Wool. Pair of No. 10 Bone
Knitting Pins. Cast on forty-five stitches.

Knit three rows.

_4th row_--Knit ten; × make two and knit two together; knit one; × knit
the last six stitches.

_5th row_--Knit, dropping the second of each of the two made stitches
all along.

Knit eight rows.

_14th row_--Knit ten; × make one and knit two together × repeat until
six remain; knit three; make one; knit three.

_15th row_--Knit six; × make one and knit two together × repeat until
ten remain, which knit.

Repeat these two rows three times more each, only not enlarging one (as
in the end of row fourteen), _every_ time, but only once in four rows,
merely knitting the six in the intervening rows.

_22nd row_--Knit. Knit the next seven rows.

_30th row_--Same as _14th_.

_31st_ row--Same as _15th_.

Keep on alternately knitting eight open, and then eight knitted rows,
and enlarging one stitch at the end in every fourth row until there are
a hundred and twenty-four rows.

Then decrease one stitch at the beginning or front in every other row
for thirty-two rows, still continuing the pattern as before, and still
enlarging one stitch in every fourth row, at the end or back. This
shapes one side of the neck.

Now knit forty-eight rows without increase or decrease at either end,
continuing the pattern or alternation of eight open and eight plain
knitted rows. This forms the back of the neck and the bottom of the back
of the habit-shirt.

In the next thirty-two rows we diminish one in every fourth row, by
knitting two together at the back, while at the same time in every
fourth row, at the back, we knit two together, and make one in order to
form a series of holes, or pattern parallel to that on the other side
caused by enlarging in every fourth row. We also cast on one, at the
opposite end, in every other row, to shape the second side of the neck.
We then knit one hundred and twelve rows, having each ten knitted
stitches in the front of the habit-shirt, as on the opposite side, and
six at the back, and decreasing one in every fourth row, at the back,
and continuing the pattern, and also the series of holes at the back.

Knit eight rows.

Knit ten stitches, × make two and knit two together; × knit six at end.

Knit all, dropping the second of each of the two made stitches. Knit two
rows; cast off.

Now, with same needles, pick up the stitches all along the right front
of the habit-shirt; knit two rows and cast off. Do the same on the left
front. Then pick up those of the neck, and do the same, shaping it, if
necessary, by knitting two together occasionally. These finishing-off
rows look pretty done in pale pink or blue wool. Button-holes may be
made thus:--in the front or where the ten stitches are, and about once
in thirty rows, knit three; cast off four; knit three instead of
knitting the ten as usual. Next row, when we get back to the ten
stitches, knit three; cast on four; knit three.


INFANT'S KNITTED SOCKS.

Half an ounce of White Lamb's Wool. Three No. 13 Knitting Needles. Cast
on Thirty stitches.

_1st row_--Knit.

_2nd row_--Knit two; make or enlarge one stitch by picking up one from
the previous row and knitting it; knit all the rest.

_3rd row_--Knit. Repeat second and third rows alternately four times
more each of them.

_12th row_--Knit two; make a stitch according to directions above given;
knit rest until four remain; knit two together; knit two.

_13th row_--Knit. Repeat these two rows alternately three times more
each.

_20th row_--Knit two; enlarge one as before directed; knit rest until
two remain; enlarge one; knit two.

_21st row_--Knit. Repeat these two rows alternately three more times
each.

_28th row_--Knit.

_29th row_--Knit fourteen stitches, and leave the other upon the needle.
Take up the third needle and knit twenty rows more, of fourteen stitches
each.

_49th row_--Knit two together; knit twelve; on same needle, and with
same wool, cast on twenty-seven stitches.

_50th row_--Knit.

_51st row_--Knit two; knit two together; knit rest until four remain;
knit two together; knit two.

_52nd row_--Knit. Repeat these two rows alternately twice more each.

_57th row_--Knit two; make one in manner directed; knit rest until four
remain; knit two together; knit two.

_58th row_--Knit. Repeat these two rows alternately three times more
each.

_65th row_--Knit all until four remain; knit two together; knit two.

_66th row_--Knit. Repeat these two rows alternately four more times
each.

_75th row_--Knit.

_76th row_--Cast off.

This completes the slipper portion of the sock. We now begin the
instep-piece. Take the wool and knit off ten stitches from the needle on
which the twenty-seven stitches were left; knit these ten from the
toe-end, or that where the twenty rows of fourteen stitches each has
been made; leave the remaining seventeen stitches still on the same
needle. Knit twenty rows of ten stitches, and in every other one pick up
the edge-stitch of the toe-piece and knit it with the tenth stitch, so
as to unite these two portions, viz: the toe and the instep. With each
stitch of the twentieth row, an edge-stitch of the side at the toe-end
of the slipper must be picked up, knitted and cast off, and a neat and
entire union of the toe of the slipper and the instep piece formed.

This instep piece is to be ribbed in rows of four, viz: four rows in
which the plain side is uppermost, and four rows in which the pearled
side is uppermost.

We now commence the leg portion of the sock.

With the needle which has been left in the first side of the slipper
carefully pick up the edge-stitches all along the instep-piece and side
of the slipper; when this is done, there should be about fifty on the
needle. Take the wool and knit all along, including the picked up
stitches, and the seventeen originally on the needle. Knit two rows.

_4th row_--Knit two; × make two (not by picking up, but in the ordinary
way, by passing the wool twice over the needle), and knit two together;
knit one; × repeat.

_5th row_--Knit all; casting off one of each of the double made
stitches. Now knit twenty rows ribbed like the instep-piece.

_26th row_--× Knit one; make one and knit two together; × repeat all
round.

_27th row_--Knit.

_28th row_--Knit two; × make one and knit two together; knit one; ×
repeat.

_29th, 30th, and 31st rows_--Knit.

_32nd row_--Cast off.

Take a wool needle, thread it with wool, and sew up the sock neatly,
stitch for stitch, from the top of the leg to the point of the sole;
then sew the toe; turn it; put on a little rosette of raveled wool; run
a ribbon in and out through the holes at rows 4 and 5, of the leg
portion, and it is completed.

As this is intended for an Infant's Sock, we have ordered white wool,
that being most useful; should it, however, be wished to knit socks for
an older baby, the slipper may be made of Cerise, Scarlet, Pale Blue,
Green, or Straw-colored wool; and the 26th, 27th, and 28th rows, of the
leg portion, and the casting-off done in the color of the slipper; while
the instep-piece and the rest of the sock are made in white wool.

The sock may also be enlarged by casting on extra stitches in the
beginning, and adding a couple of rows to each of the divisions of the
slipper part, and enough to the toe to preserve its form and symmetry.

Almost any of the open anti-maccassar patterns may be used for knitting
the sock and instep-piece, if a light lace-like appearance is desired.
The well-known rose-leaf pattern looks particularly pretty.


SERVANTS.


An English writer, speaking of servants, says:--

"There is no question but that we should seek to perform _all_ our
duties without hope of recompense; and yet, as regards our treatment of
servants, we should be especially careful that, in endeavoring to make
their bodily comfort and mental improvement an object of consideration,
we do not allow ourselves to dwell on the hope of gratitude or affection
from them in return. Many have done so, and having, with that view, been
tempted to accord unwise indulgences and to overlook serious faults,
they have found that, far from gaining the love of their servants, they
have incurred their contempt; and when they have perceived that their
favors, unappreciated, have led but to new encroachments, they have
hardened their hearts and rushed into an opposite extreme. Then they
have considered their servants as mere machines, from which labor must
be extorted by all available means.

"A man servant is rarely grateful, and seldom attached. He is generally
incapable of appreciating those advantages which, with your cultivated
judgment, you know to be the most conducive to his welfare. Do you
accord to him regular hours, a stated allowance of work; do you refrain
from sending him out because it is wet and he is unwell; do you serve
yourself rather than ring for him at dinner time; he will rarely have
the grace to thank you in his heart for your constant consideration.
Hear him! He will thus describe a comfortable place:--'There were very
few in the family; when they went out of a night, we made it up of a
morning; we had nice hot suppers, and the cook made a good hash for
breakfast, and we always got luncheon between that and dinner; and we
were all very comfortable together, and had a friend in when we liked.
Master swore at us sometimes, but often made us a present for it when he
had been very violent; a good-hearted man as ever lived, and mistress
was quite the lady, and never meddled with servants. It was a capital
place!'

"Servants' sympathies are with their equals. They feel for a poor
servant run off his legs, and moped to death; they have no feeling for a
pains-taking mistress, economical both from principle and scanty means;
they would (most of them) see her property wasted, and her confidence
abused without compunction. It is the last effort of a virtue in a
servant if, without any _private reason_, he should discharge his duty
by informing you of the injury which you are enduring at the hands of
his fellow servant. It is an effort of virtue, for it will bring down
many a bitter taunt and hard word upon his faithful head. '_I_ never got
a servant out of a place by telling tales on him,' will be said to him.
Directly a servant departs, we all know, tongues, tied before, are
loosed, to gain our favor by apparent candor. When it can avail us
nothing, we are told. We all know this, and have said, 'Be silent now,
you should have mentioned this at the time.' Supposing, then, you have
the _rara avis_, the servant that 'speaks at the time,' be chary of him,
or let me say _her_, (the best servants are women.) Oh! as you value
her, let her not suppose you cannot part with her. Treat her with
confidence, but with strict impartiality; reprove when necessary,
mildly, but decidedly; lest she should presume (power is so tempting),
and compel you, if you would retain your freedom, to let her go.

"There is one thing a man servant values beyond all that your kindness
and your consideration can do for him--his liberty; liberty to eat,
drink, and be merry, with your things in the company of his own friends;
liberty to get the housemaid to clean his candlesticks, and bring up his
coals; and the housemaid wishes for liberty to lie in bed in the
morning, because she was up so late talking to John in the pantry;
liberty to wear flounces and flowers. The cook desires liberty too. For
this liberty, if you grant it, they will despise you; if you deny it,
they will respect you. Aim at their esteem; despair of their love or
gratitude; make your place what the best class of servants will value,
and, though in their heart, they may not thank you for it, you will
gain, perhaps, one servant out of twenty who will keep gross imposition
and gross immorality at bay.

"These remarks can never be intended to deny the warm attachment of
female servants to the children of their employers. Deep love, no doubt,
is lavished by many a woman on the babe she has nursed. There is a
great deal to be said on the chapter of nurses which would require to be
dealt with by itself. Much wisdom is required in the administration of a
nursery, to which few general rules would apply. Cruel is the tyranny
the nurse frequently practises on the parent, who often refrains from
entering her nursery, not from want of love to her children, but
positive dread of the sour looks which greet her. Let her be firm, let
no shrinking from grieving her darling, who would 'break his heart if
his Nanna went,' deter her from discharging the encroaching servant.

"I know a lady who was quietly informed by her nurse that she must have
a 'specified hour' for visiting her children, for that her entering
without ceremony was most inconvenient. The poor young lady, who was
fully persuaded her delicate infant would die, if removed to a
stranger's hands, meekly obeyed, and though tortured by the cries of the
poor sickly baby, never dared to intrude lest the nurse should abandon
it. This is a true history, and the sequel may as well be given: that
the nurse remained seven years, at the end of which time, having become
insupportable, though really devoted to the children, she gave warning,
and, though it cost her mistress bitter tears and much resolution, she
was suffered to depart, and then peace entered that house.

"On the choice of servants much of the comfort of the young housekeeper
depends. It often happens that her choice has been determined by
appearance rather than the value of character. If such be the case, she
will have many difficulties to encounter. It is, in the present day,
hardly safe to take a servant if there be a single objection to
character, however it may be glossed over by the person referred to on
this point; for there is now an unhealthy disposition to pass over the
failings of servants who have left their places, and to make them
perfect in the eyes of others. In respect to sobriety, many people will
not acknowledge that a servant had had the vice of drinking, but will
cover the unpleasant truth in such gentle and plausible terms that it
becomes difficult to comprehend how far the hint is grounded, or not. Be
assured when a lady or gentleman hesitates on this point, or on that of
honesty, it is wiser not to engage a servant. Nor are you deviating from
Christian charity in not overlooking a dereliction of so material a
sort. The kindest plan to the vast community of domestic servants is to
be rigid in all important points, and having, after a due experience, a
just confidence in them, to be somewhat indulgent to errors of a more
trivial nature.

"If all young housekeepers were strict upon the subject of dress, much
misery to servants would be saved, much temptation avoided, and
self-reproach prevented. Instead of this kind, and wise, and matronly
particularity, a type of the good, old-fashioned common sense of our
grandmothers, ladies now countenance their ladies'-maids in
discontinuing caps, or, if they have caps, in wearing flowers and lace,
flowered gowns, and other items of little apparent moment in detail, but
of much importance to a community as serviceable to the public when well
managed and respectable, as they are odious and noxious when immoral or
insolent. After these cruel indulgences, ladies marvel when they find
servants rise above their station and that they will not bear even a
mild reproof; they wonder that a plain, useful servant is nowhere to be
met with. There is now no medium between the fine lady with mittens and
flowers who dresses your hair, and the dirty sloven of a lodging-house.
All housemaids must now be upper housemaids; cooks must be cooks and
housekeepers. The homely housemaid--that invaluable character in her
way--is indeed difficult to be found; and, at a time when cleanliness is
at its zenith, the rarity is to discover any one who will clean. All,
except the raw country girl, expect to have deputies; and, if we go on
to perfection in this unhealthy system, we shall soon have no working
servants above twenty years of age. The consequence is, that a greater
number of servants are kept in every household than formerly in similar
families; many of these menials are corrupted by congregating together
and by idleness. The loud and crying complaints of the worthlessness of
this class are but too justly founded. That they are more mercenary than
ever, is owing to the pernicious system which lifts them up above their
condition, but fails to elevate them in the moral standard. In the scale
of virtue they sink every day lower and lower; in the outward attributes
they are, as they consider it, raised in character and improved in
appearance.

"But is it so? The beauty of every thing is fitness. Is the half-fine,
unlady-like, yet lady-like creature, who answers to your dressing-room
bell, half so respectable as the old-fashioned, plainly dressed,
careful, homely maiden of your young days? Is it not with a feeling of
disgust that you turn from the attempted finery, and sigh for plain
collars, and caps undecked by flowers, again? I think, among the
best-bred, the most sensible, and, indeed, the most highly born people
of a superior stamp, this disgust is so strong that, in some families, a
grave and suitable costume is introduced for the female servants, and
the effect is satisfactory, both on the appearance and on the mode of
thinking of these persons. But this wise, and therefore kind plan, is
far from being general; and I have heard that a lady's-maid complained
to her mistress that she found herself the subject of ridicule, owing to
her not wearing silks, and indeed satins, as the other ladies'-maids
did.

"It becomes the duty of ladies of influence to rise above the silly
vanity which, I fear, affects some of them, of seeing their
ladies'-maids as smart as ladies, and to oppose innovations on the
decencies of society, so pernicious to the class upon whom much of our
comfort depends. In setting out in life, a young married lady ought to
be more than ordinarily strict in these matters, for her inexperience
will certainly be taken advantage of to some extent. If she be rich
enough to have a housekeeper, let her endeavor to select one of strict
religious faith, plain in attire, grave, but kind, and of good sense,
and even intelligence; for cultivation of mind will never, whatever may
be stated, detract from the utility of a servant. It is absurd to
attribute to the diffusion of knowledge the deterioration of servants;
it is rather owing to the scanty amount of knowledge among them. Most
superficial is the education about which so much is said and written;
were servants more thoroughly grounded in many branches of knowledge,
they would be wiser, less rapacious, more systematic, and better
contented than they are. They are wretched reasoners, generally losing
sight of their own true interest, and grasping at that which is unreal
and visionary. If they were better educated, this would not be the case;
they would be less vain, less credulous; they would know what qualities
to respect; they would weigh better the advantage of their lot; and they
would work better as servants. They would give mind, where now they only
give hands; and their acquirements, taken from school as they are in
very early youth, are not ever likely to be such as to make the routine
of their work distasteful to them, from over refinement or cultivation.

"It is always desirable to have, if possible, servants of one faith. But
if it so happens that you have a Roman Catholic servant and a Protestant
in your service, you are bound to allow each the free exercise of her
religion, and you ought not to respect them if, out of interest, they
will conform to yours. An exercise of authority on this point amounts,
in my opinion, to an act of tyranny, and it can only tend to promote
insincerity, and, perhaps, engender scepticism in its object. Nothing
is, indeed, so dangerous as to unsettle the faith of the lower classes,
who have neither time nor opportunity of fairly considering subjects of
religious controversy.

"While on the subject of servants, I must deprecate the over-indulgence
of the present system towards them. Formerly they were treated with real
kindness, but it was the kindness that exacted duty in return, and took
a real interest in the welfare of each servant. The reciprocal tie in
former times between servant and master was strong, now it is wholly
gone. The easy rule of masters and mistresses proceeds far more from
indifference than from kindness of heart; for the real charity is to
keep servants steadily to their duties. They are a class of persons to
whom much leisure is destruction; the pursuits of their idle hours are
seldom advantageous to them, and theirs are not minds which can thrive
in repose. Idleness, to them, is peculiarly the root of all evil, for,
if their time is not spent in vicious amusements, it is often passed in
slander, discontent, or vanity. In writing thus, I do not recommend a
hard or inconsiderate system to servants. They require, and in many
instances they merit, all that can be done to alleviate a situation of
servitude. They ought not to be the slaves of caprice or the victims of
temper. Their work should be measured out with a just hand; but it
should be regularly exacted in as much perfection as can be expected in
variable and erring human nature.

"Another point on which I would recommend firmness is that of early
hours. In this respect example is as important as precept; but, however
uncertain you may be yourself, I would not relax a rule of that kind.
For every comfort during the day depends upon the early rising of your
servants. Without this, all their several departments are hurried
through or neglected in some important respect.

"Your mode of address to servants must be decisive, yet mild. The
authoritative tone I do not recommend. It is very unbecoming to any
young person, and it rarely attains the end desired; but there is a
quiet dignity of deportment which few servants ever can resist. This
should be tempered with kindness, when circumstances call it forth, but
should never descend to familiarity. For no caution is more truly kind
than which confines servants strictly to their own sphere.

"Much evil results from the tendency, more especially of very young, or
of very old mistresses of families, to partiality. Commonly, one servant
becomes the almost avowed favorite; and it is difficult to say whether
that display of partiality is the more pernicious to the servant who is
the object of it, or to the rankling and jealous minds of the rest of
the household. It is true that it is quite impossible to avoid
entertaining a greater degree of confidence in some servants than in
others; but it should be shown with a due regard to the feelings of all.
It is, of course, allowable towards those who take a decidedly
responsible and confidential situation in a household. Still, never let
such persons assume the reins of government; let them act the part of
helmsman to the vessel, but not aspire to the control of the captain.

"It is generally wise and right, after a due experience of the
principles and intentions of servants, to place confidence in their
honesty, and to let them have the comfort of knowing that you do so. At
the same time, never cease to exercise a system of supervision. The
great principle of housekeeping is regularity; and without this (one of
the most difficult of the minor virtues to practice) all efforts to
promote order must be ineffectual. I have seen energetic women, clever
and well-intentioned, fail in attaining a good method, owing to their
being uncertain in hours, governed by impulse, and capricious. I have
seen women, inferior in capacity, slow, and apathetic, make excellent
heads of families, as far as their household was concerned, from their
steadiness and regularity. Their very power of enduring monotony has
been favorable to their success in this way, especially if they are not
called upon to act in peculiar and difficult cases, in which their
actual inferiority is traceable. But these are not the ordinary
circumstances of life.

"In closing these remarks on the management of servants, let me exhort
you never to forget that they are fellow-laborers, in the life of
probation, with ourselves; let us not embitter their lives by harshness,
or proffer to them temptation from carelessness and over-indulgence.
Since all that is given us of this world's goods is but in trust, let us
regard our servants as beings for whose conduct, while under our
control, we are more or less responsible. It is true that, if they come
to us with morals wholly depraved, it is not likely that the most
strenuous exertions can amend them; but many waver between good and
evil. Let us endeavor to excite in their minds a respect for virtue, to
give them motives for industry, inducements to save their wages. Those
who have large households should not deem the morals of the meanest of
their servants beneath their investigation, or too obscure for their
influence to reach."

Some attention is absolutely necessary, in this country, to the training
of servants, as they come here from the lowest ranks of English and
Irish peasantry, with as much idea of politeness as the pig domesticated
in the cabin of the latter.

Opening the door seems a simple act, yet few servants perform it in a
proper, respectful manner. Let your servant understand that the door
must be opened immediately after the bell rings. Visitors, from neglect
of this rule, will often ring several times, and finally leave the door.
I have known an instance when in a case of severe illness the patient
lost the visit of the doctor, who, after ringing some minutes, was
obliged to pay other visits, and could not return to the sufferer's
house until several hours later.

When opening the door some servants hold it ajar and hold a long parley
with the person on the steps, as if afraid they wished to enter for the
purpose of murder or theft.

Train them to answer the door promptly, speak politely to any one who
may be there, excuse you, if necessary, to visitors in courteous terms,
or, if you are in, show the callers into the parlor, take their card,
and come back quickly with your answer.



ON A YOUNG LADY'S CONDUCT WHEN CONTEMPLATING MARRIAGE.


The following chapter, met with in a recent perusal of an English work
for young ladies, strikes me as so admirable, and so appropriate in this
place, that I quote the chapter entire:

"The difficulties and trials of life have only just begun when a young
lady fancies herself to be of sufficient importance to become the theme
of animadversion. She knows little of the true importance of
self-control, until she experiences the first indications of preference
shown her by the other sex.

"Such indications are often manifested, whilst she to whom they are
directed, is wholly unprepared to analyze her own feelings, before her
opinions upon what she has seen are by any means developed; before she
has even considered adequately, on what her happiness depends; before
she has discernment to reject what is frivolous, or wisdom to prefer
what is good. This is more especially the case in the highest and lowest
classes, in which, by a strange analogy, they either rush into the
marriage state whilst children, or wait until the bloom and hopes of
youth have forever passed away, in order to form interested matches. The
matured period of five-and-twenty to thirty, is passed by the lower
classes in the single state in labor to gain subsistence; after thirty,
or even forty, we often find them marrying. But the majority have sealed
their own fate before the age of twenty.

"In high life, the same haste to dispose of daughters prevails as among
the lowest classes. At seventeen, most of our belles of fashion expect
to receive proposals. If they do not marry within a few years after
their introduction, they have a mortified sense of having lost
time--that the expectations of friends and of parents have not been
fulfilled; that others have 'gone off' before them. The next ten years
are often a period of subdued vexation, and the sweetness and
contentment of the original character is impaired. About seven or eight
and twenty, the views of life are sobered--the expectations chastened--a
renovation takes place--women again become agreeable; their minds must
in the lapse of time, even with a miserable store of observation, have
improved. They then often marry--and, if the union be not a mere effort
of despair, if it be based on sound and holy principles, and on good
sense, there is, for both parties engaged, a great likelihood of
happiness.

"But, it may be naturally contended, that there come not to _all_ young
ladies the opportunities of which I write; that indications of
preference arrive not to all. I am inclined to believe that, with good
temper, pleasing manners, and respectable connections, there exists, in
modern society, very few young ladies who have not received under
various circumstances, some marks of preference, more or less decided.
Beauty and plainness are arbitrary, not positive, terms. Unless there be
any actual deformity, any great infirmity, in which case I think it were
cruel to pre-suppose the likelihood of such indications, there is no
one, that I hardly ever met with, who has not had, on some grounds, her
partizans and admirers. The plain are often particularized as elegant;
tastes vary: even a sour look I have heard admired as sensible, cold
manners eulogized as correct. Opinion, however it may generally verge to
the correct, springs from so many sources, it is so governed by
association of ideas, such trifles may guide it, that I am never
surprised at the latitude given to personal encomium nor at the endless
variety and incongruity of human judgment. It is well that all have a
chance of being approved, admired, beloved, and it remains for them to
avail themselves of those possibilities which contribute so much to
happiness. For we are sympathizing beings, and a law of our nature makes
us look for a return of sympathy. We are sent here to form ties, and to
love, and to be loved, whether the term applies to parental, or filial,
or fraternal love--or whether it respects the less sure and more fitful
experiences of love, in its ordinary sense.

"I do not blame the parents who instil into their children of both sexes
a desire to be married. I think those who teach the young a different
lesson deceive them. Marriage, with all its chances, its infelicities,
its sacrifices, is seldom so infelicitous, so uncertain, so full of
sacrifice, as the single state. Life must have some objects, and those
objects must be progressive. The mind is happier and healthier with
such interests, even if sorrow comes along with them, than in its
solitude, its desolate freedom from care, when having, as the phrase is,
no troubles of the conjugal sort to disturb its tranquillity. I
therefore do not censure those who desire to see their daughters happily
and suitably established in life. It is the indiscreet and vulgar haste,
the indelicacy, the low mercenary views, and the equally low ambition to
compass a splendid match, which is blameable and revolting in the
parental conduct.

"Many are, however, blessed with guides and guardians of very different
characters; with parents, whose lofty natures not only reject such
unworthy notions, but somewhat incline to the extreme of repelling all
advances for their daughters. In either case, the conduct of a young
lady may be the same. It is she who must form her own destiny in points
on which none can effectually aid her. It is she who is to be the happy
wife, or the wretched victim; and it is to her that these observations
of admonition and of warning are addressed. Let us suppose her young, of
course, attractive in appearance, of good birth, and some fortune. I
here except heiresses, who, being anomalies, deserve a particular
paragraph for themselves. But let us suppose that no obstacle of family
or connection interferes to check the approach of a suitor.

"The eyes of her family and of her young friends are upon her, when a
young lady receives the first indications of preference. She is
generally ashamed of it. This is the first sentiment of a modest and
ingenuous mind, and it is one indication, in my opinion, of the
impropriety of early marriages. Nature seems still to wish to keep the
young and blushing girl apart from that connection which entails grave
and arduous duties. But Nature's voice is far less often heard than that
of her adversary, expediency. I must, therefore, shape my injunctions to
that which exists, not to that which we would wish to exist.

"Almost sinking under this painful sense of shame, this novel
disturbance of her usual set of feelings, a young girl catches at the
first reed to save herself from observation and detection. I mean
detection of her perception of that which others may or may not see. She
seizes upon ridicule. She pretends to laugh at one, whom sometimes her
youthful romantic fancy dwells upon in a very different sense. She
laughs at the foibles, supposed or real, of her admirer: she plays a
dangerous game. If any of those to whom she imparts her witticisms are
malevolently disposed or thoughtless, she runs a risk either of wounding
the feelings of a man whom she does not like, or of losing the regard of
one whom she might in time not only esteem, but love.

"Another effect of such attentions as awaken a consciousness in a young
lady's mind, is the gratification of vanity, perhaps until then latent
in her heart. The first preference is apt to upset the reason of its
object as of him who shows it. The word vanity does not seem to imply
danger. Vanity is generally considered an innocent failing; but it is
innocent only as some kinds of food are to a healthy subject. On a weak,
or even on an inexperienced mind, it acts, sometimes, fatally for the
vain. A girl is either carried away by admiration so as to be flippant
and foolish, or she is blinded by her vanity to the failings of the man
who first admires her. She is intoxicated with the notion of an offer
of marriage; she imagines, in her simplicity, effervesced as it is by
the infusion of flattered vanity, that she has inspired such an
attachment as will never be recovered, should she prove adverse to it.
Many an engagement has been formed under this conviction, and fulfilled
only to prove its fallacy, for the love which was supposed too strong to
survive disappointment, has expired in the fruition of its hopes.

"To guard against either of these risks to happiness, a well-educated
girl should endeavor, in this, to exercise her judgment. She should be
sincere. She is blameable to ridicule the attentions which are meant as
complimentary to her. They ought to be at least regarded with respect.

"Should they not be acceptable, she is inexcusable to requite them with
levity and disdain. Let her reflect how she would like such conduct
herself. Besides, she is often making a bitter enemy; perhaps she is
exciting fierce and unamiable sentiments in one who otherwise might have
been regarded as a mild and worthy individual. Let her be undeceived if
she supposes that in thus doing she is carrying herself with dignity, or
acquiring any added admiration from others. She ceases, in thus acting,
to support the characteristics of a gentlewoman, which are mildness,
courtesy, and reserve. If she cherishes, in spite of her pretended
disgust, a secret partiality for the individual who distinguishes her,
if she is lowering the esteem of a man whom she prefers, she not only
incurs the hazard of losing his regard, but she is scattering ridicule
on one whom she afterwards avows as her choice. In that case, she is
lowering herself, or she is sowing the seeds of distrust in the minds of
those who know her--she is, perhaps, frustrating and delaying her own
happiness. Let her act with candor, with consideration, with good sense,
and all this web which her folly would weave around her will not
embarrass her. Let her not madly and obstinately resist the advice of
those on whose affection to her, and on whose good judgment, experience
has taught her to rely. Let her be a child in nothing except humility;
let her listen to counsels; yet her own heart must decide for her--none
can know so well as herself its secret throbs, or the impression of
dislike or of regard which has been made upon it.

"I am, I confess, an enemy to trying to like a person, as I have rarely
seen such a mental process end in happiness to either party. If an
advantageous proposal offer itself, it is wiser decidedly to refuse it,
than to trust to the slow growth of affection, upon a foundation of
original dislike. And the trials of married life are such,--its
temptations to irritability and contention are so manifold, its
anxieties so unforseen and so complicated, that few can steer their
difficult course safely and happily, unless there be a deep and true
attachment, to contend with all the storms which may arise in the
navigation.

"Deeply impressed with this conviction, should it be the lot of any
young lady in whom I were interested to form a real, well-grounded
attachment to a man whose circumstances were indifferent, I should
counsel her, provided she can depend on the character and exertions of
the object so beloved, to risk the event of an engagement--to trust to
time and Providence, and to marry whenever means were afforded,--convinced
as I am, that patience, and trust, and true affection, raise the
character, and are acceptable in the eyes of our Heavenly Father. But
in such a case, she must school her mind to meet the anxieties which
attend limited means. She must prepare herself, by habits of diligence
and economy, to become a poor man's wife. She must learn the difficult
art of doing well upon a little. She must not, be she in any rank of
life, think to indulge with impunity to herself in every refinement and
luxury when she is single; and, upon her marriage, imagine that she can
attain the practice of economy by wishing it. Such metamorphoses are out
of reason--out of nature. She must endeavor before the bond which ties
her to poverty is framed, to understand the duties of housekeeping, the
mysteries of needle-work. She must lay down to herself rules of
expenditure suitable, in part, to her future condition in life. Many a
wife, thus commencing, has laid the foundations of future fortune, at
least independence, to her husband, by keeping his mind at peace, during
his progress up the steep ascent to professional, or clerical, or
literary fame. Many a home has been cheered by domestic forbearance, and
placid submission to circumstances, even in the higher classes, during
the life-time of a father, or in the course of those long expectancies,
in which the fortitude and principle of many of the aristocracy are
tried and proved. But the self-denial, the cheerfulness, the good
management, the strict principle, are formed at an earlier period than
that in which a young lady gives her hand to him whom she has chosen,
in spite of the frown of fortune, as her husband.

"Of this let the young be assured; there are few situations in life, in
which a man, young, and in health, cannot meliorate his circumstances,
if he possess energy and if he be stimulated by a true affection. The
clergyman, with humble stipend, often hopeless from want of interest,
has leisure--he has had education. He may, if he desires to assist
himself, have recourse to literary labor, or to tuition. If he make not
such exertion, during the course of an engagement, what hope can there
be of him in future life?

"The young lawyer, however tedious his advancement, however few his
opportunities, may also distinguish himself in a literary career.
Innumerable are the subjects open to one of such a profession. How few
avail themselves of the chance! Upon this rely, the man truly in love
will make the effort. To the military man, though perhaps he may be less
qualified, the same course is open, in a degree. Some of our best
travels, some of our most amusing literary productions, have been the
compositions of military men. And the advantage of this mode of aiding a
small fortune is, that a man not only does not lower, but he raises his
position by it, if his works are moral, written in a gentlemanly spirit,
and affording information. However deep the attachment, however
agreeable the object, if a man be indisposed to help himself to
independence and competence, I should counsel no woman to continue an
engagement formed in the expectation of 'times mending.' When I
advocate the indulgence of attachment, it is to worthy, not to
unworthy, objects.

"I now come to speak of moral character. Hard is the contest between
affection and expediency, when it is raised by the question of
circumstances. But harder still is it, when its result is to be decided
upon an inquiry into moral conduct. I know not a more cruel situation
than that when the heart is bestowed on one whom the judgment could not
approve. I know not one which should be more strictly guarded against,
not only by parents and friends, but (for I would impress on every young
lady how much she may prove the best guardian of her own happiness) by
the female heart itself.

"With every vigilance, with little to blame, little to repent, such
cases will occur in this world. The feelings are interested, but the
judgment distrusts. Happy is it for those who know the combat between
affection and principle only in single life, and have not the misery of
encountering so severe a destiny when it can no longer be remedied--who
know not how to fulfill the vow to honor what is proved to be
unworthy--and yet still must love,--for the affections once given, are
little in our own power.

"In such a case occurring to the young, in, perhaps, a first attachment,
I think they must be guided by friends. I am _not_ an advocate for the
interference of friends: where it is much a question of a long and
contingent engagement--a question of being married at once, or of
waiting, in some uncertainty--a question of ease or discomfort, of
limited means or luxury--in such instances, if the moral character be
unexceptionable, it is the duty of parents to point out all the risk,
all the disadvantages, but to leave the heart to form its own decisions.
Let them not seek to wrench the affections from the channel in which
they flowed, when fresh from their source. They cannot know how deep the
channel is--they cannot know if ever those pure and beautiful waters
will flow in peace again when once hastily turned aside. But in cases of
moral character, of right or wrong, the affair is wholly different, and
the strictest parental authority ought, upon due inquiry, to be
exercised.

"Submission and self-control are then the duty of the young
sufferer--for a sufferer she truly _is_;--no page of her after-history
could unfold a bitterer pang. But peace and hope come at last--the
struggle, though violent, leaves behind it none of that corroding
sorrow, which would have accompanied the acquiescence of parents in a
union unblessed by a Providence, whose will is that all should be pure,
even as He above is pure. Had your fond wishes been granted, young and
trusting being, how fearful would have been your condition! For there is
no suspicion so revolting to an innocent mind as that which unseats love
from his throne in our affections, and places another in his stead. Be
assured of this--little can you know of the moral conduct of the other
sex; little is it desirable that you should know. But whenever
improprieties are so flagrant as to be matters of conversation; when the
good shun, and the pitying forbear to excuse; be assured some deeper
cause than you can divine exists for the opprobrium. Think not that your
empire over affections thus wasted can be a real one. It is transient,
it will not last--it will not bring reformation--it will never be
adequately requited. Throw yourself on the judgment of those whose
interest in you has been life-long, or of such as you know truly regard
your happiness; conquer the unhallowed preference; pray for support and
guidance; trust in Him who 'catereth for the sparrow.'

"But, when the commencement of life is chilled by so cruel a
sorrow--when the blight has fallen on the bud--we must not only look up
to heavenly aid, we must take every means of care for an unfortunate,
and, when once the judgment is convinced of the unworthiness of the
object, a blameable attachment. How often, in the Psalms, in the
Gospels, the word 'Help' is reiterated! We are to help ourselves--we
must work for our heavenly peace on earth--the mental discipline, to
prosper, must be aided by divine grace, but its springs must be from our
own hearts. And, to fulfill the will of God in this, as in the other
events of life, let us take such means as may aid us in the work of
self-government.

"In the first place, let employment be resorted to by the sorrowing, do
not indulge in tears; do not sit alone: abstain, for a time, from music;
abstain from the perusal of poetry, or works of imagination. They still
more soften the feelings and open up the sources of grief. Read works of
_fact_--endeavor to occupy yourself with the passing events of the
world. And, when the overburdened heart cannot be comforted, or its
thoughts diverted--for there will be moments too mournful to be
resisted--go forth into the fields, go to the houses of the poor--see
the goodness and mercy of God--see too, the patience and long-suffering
of the poor, who may often set the rich an example of fortitude. Occupy
yourself, if you can, with children; their freshness, their joyful
unconsciousness, the elasticity of their spirits, will sustain and draw
you from yourself, or have recourse to the soothing calmness of the
aged. Hear them converse upon the affairs of life; how they appreciate
the importance of each passing event, as a traveler does the ruts and
inequalities of the road he has traversed. How their confidence in the
effect of time sustains you! and you turn from them, reflecting on all
that the happiest of them must necessarily have endured. Be assured of
your own recovery, under an influence so certain.

"Avoid young persons of your own age. If possible, except to a sister,
whose deep interest in you will probably teach her a superior lesson,
never confide in young friends, a similar trial as that to which I have
referred. In general, your resolution will be weakened, your feelings
re-excited, your confidence in your best advisers will be shaken. For
the young usually take the part of the rejected lover--they delight in
that dangerous species of sympathy which flatters with hope. They are
naturally incredulous as to the delinquencies of a man who is agreeable,
and in love; they incline to the notion of the hard-heartedness of
fathers, uncles, and elder brothers; and even, if they happen to possess
good sense, or to exercise the rare quality of prudence in such matters,
the very communication of any sorrow, or the recital of any feelings,
gives not only a merely temporary relief, but deadens that sorrow and
strengthens those feelings, which grow every time they are imparted. If
you wish to recover--and, if you have a sound and well-disposed mind,
you _will_ wish to recover--you must, after the first burst of grief is
over, speak but rarely of a theme too painful and delicate to bear the
contact of rude minds--too dangerous to dwell upon with those of a
kindlier and loftier nature.

"To your female relations--to your mother, more especially, too great an
openness cannot be practiced on these points, but openness does not
imply a perpetual recurrence to a theme, which must wear out patience
and exhaust all but maternal sympathy, in time. For maternal sympathy is
exhaustless; be generous, and restrain, from that very reflection, the
continual demand upon its flow. The first person to consult, the last to
afflict--a mother--should not be the victim of her daughter's feelings.
Her judgment should not be weakened by the incessant indulgence of a
daughter's sorrows.

"I would, on many grounds, caution the young against hasty engagements.
It seems extraordinary that the welfare of a life should often be
determined upon the acquaintance of a few weeks. The principles, it is
true, may be ascertained from the knowledge of others, the manners may
please, the means and expectations may all be clearly understood. But
the temper--that word of unspeakable import--the daily habits, the power
of constancy--these are not to be known without a long and severe
examination of the motives, and a daily observation of the conduct, of
others. Very little suffices to mar the happiness of married life, if
that little proceed in the character of a man, from a rooted
selfishness.

"It is true, in regard to this defect, that much may be done by a wife
to meliorate a vice of character which is, in some, only the result of
never having had their feelings developed. But if there exist not this
excuse--if, in spite of ties, which are dearer to an affectionate mind
than existence; you find a man preferring his own comfort to that of
those whom he professes to love--if you find him imperious to his
servants, dictatorial to sisters, on cool terms with brothers, there is
little hope that the mental disease will ever be rooted out, so as to
leave a healthy character of mind. Examine well into this point; for a
hasty temper may be remedied, and even endured--but the deep, slow,
sullen course of a selfish nature wears away hope, imparts a cankering
care, and, with it, often disgust. No defect is so little to be resisted
as selfishness. It creeps into every detail; it infects the minutest
affairs of life as well as the greatest concerns. It depresses the
humble sufferer from its baneful effects; it irritates the passions of
the unamiable. Study well the character in trifles; nor venture to risk
your bark on the sea of matrimony, unless you know well how far this
man, whom you might prefer, is free from this deadly infection. View
him, if possible, in his home, before you pledge your faith with
his--or, if that be not practicable, reflect upon the general course of
his actions, of his sentiments, and endeavor dispassionately to judge
them, as best you may."


BRIDAL ETIQUETTE.


In preparing a bridal outfit, it is best to furnish the wardrobe for at
least two years, in under-clothes, and one year in dresses, though the
bonnet and cloak, suitable for the coming season, are all that are
necessary, as the fashions in these articles change so rapidly. If you
are going to travel, have a neat dress and cloak of some plain color,
and a close bonnet and veil. Avoid, as intensely vulgar, any display of
your position as a _bride_, whilst traveling.

Take, first, the weddings at church. In this case none are invited to
the ceremony excepting the family, and the reception is at the house of
the bride's mother, or nearest relative, either on the wedding-day or
upon her return from the bridal tour.

In sending out the invitations, let the card of the bridegroom and that
of the bride be tied together with a white ribbon, and folded in the
note paper upon which is printed the name of the bride's mother, with
the date of the reception-day, thus:--

                         MRS. JOHN SAUNDERS.
                            At home, Thursday, Oct. 16th,
                                                 from 11 till 2.

   No. 218, ---- st.

of course the hours and dates vary, but the form is the same.

If there is no bridal reception upon the wedding day, the cards are
worded:--

                               MR. AND MRS. JAMES SMITH.
                                     At home, Wednesdays,
                                        On, and after, June 6th.

   No. 17, ---- st.

Tie the card with the bride's maiden name upon it to this one.

Enclose the invitation in a white envelope, and tie it with white satin
ribbon. If you send cake, have it put in a white box, and place the note
outside the cover, tying it fast with white satin ribbon.

The bride's dress must be of white entirely. If she is married in the
morning, a plain white silk, white mantle, and white bonnet, full
trimmed with orange flowers, with a plain veil, is the most suitable
dress, and she may wear a richer one at her reception, when she returns
from her bridal tour.

As soon as the carriages come, let the bridesmaids, and relatives set
off first.--Last, the bride with her parents. The bride, her parents,
and the bridesmaids go immediately to the vestry, where they meet the
bridegroom, and the groomsmen. The father of the bride gives her his arm
and escorts her to the altar, the bridegroom walking on the other side.
Then follow the bridesmaids and groomsmen in couples.

When they reach the altar the bridegroom removes his right hand glove,
but the bride keeps hers on until the clergyman takes the ring. The
first bridesmaid then removes the left hand glove, and it is not
resumed. The bridesmaids should wear white dresses, white mantles, and
bonnets, but not veils or orange flowers.

The bride and groom leave the church first, after the ceremony is over,
and take the carriage with the parents of the bride, and the others
follow in the order in which they came.

If there is a breakfast or morning reception, the bride will not change
her dress until she retires to put on her traveling attire. If the
wedding takes place in the evening at church, to be followed by a full
dress reception at home, the bride should wear a white lace dress over
satin, or any other material to suit her own taste, a veil, falling from
her head to her feet, fastened to the hair by a coiffure of orange
flowers; white kid gloves, and white satin slippers. A bouquet, if
carried, should contain only white flowers.

The bridesmaids may wear white, or some thin, light-colored material
over white, a head-dress of flowers, and carry bouquets of mixed
flowers.

When the wedding takes place at home, let the company assemble in the
front drawing-room, and close the doors between that and the back room.
In the back room, let the bride, bridegroom, bridesmaids, and groomsmen,
the parents of the bride, and the clergyman, assemble. The clergyman
should stand in the centre of the room, the bride and groom before him,
the bridesmaids ranged beside the bride, the groomsmen beside the
bridegroom. Then open the doors and let the ceremony begin. This
arrangement saves that awkwardness attendant upon entering the room and
taking the position before a large company.

After the ceremony is over, the parents of the bride speak to her first;
then her near relatives, and not until then the other members of the
company.

It is not usual now to have dancing, or even music, at a wedding, and
the hour is named upon the cards, at which the guests are expected to
retire.

A very pretty effect is produced in the wedding group, if the bride
wears pure white, and the bridesmaids white, with flowers and trimmings
of a different color. Thus, one in white, with a head-dress and trimming
of green leaves; another, white, with blue ribbons and forget-me-nots;
another, white, with pink roses and ribbons.

If the wedding is in the morning, the bride and family may wear full
dress; in that case the shutters should be closed and the rooms lighted
as in the evenings.

Let the supper be laid early, and ready when the ceremony is over, that
the guests may pass into the dining-room, if they wish, as soon as they
have spoken to the bride. If a morning wedding, let the table be set as
for an evening wedding.

If the bride gives a reception at her own house, after her return from
her bridal tour, she should not wear her wedding-dress. If in the
evening, a supper should be set. If a morning reception, let her wear a
handsome light silk, collar and sleeves of lace. Wine and cake are
sufficient to hand to each guest at a morning reception. At an evening
reception let the bride wear full dress, but not her wedding-dress.

At parties given to a newly married couple, the bridesmaids and
groomsmen are always invited, and the whole party are expected to wear
the same dresses as at the wedding.


HINTS ON HEALTH.


The universal remark of travelers visiting America, as well as the
universal complaint of Americans themselves, relates to the ill health
of the fairer portion of the community. Look where you will, go to any
city in the vast Union, the remark and complaint will be made
everywhere. With every natural advantage of climate, yet from North to
South, East to West the cry resounds.

Foreigners, admiring the dark-eyed girls of the southern states or the
blondes of the northern ones, will remark, with comments upon beauty:--

"But she looks delicate, poor thing!--Not strong? Ah! I thought not,
none of the American women are, and how soon these young beauties fade!"

It seems to me, amongst the subjects treated of in my present work, that
a few words on health will not come amiss.

"Light and sunshine are needful for your health. Get all you can; keep
your windows clean. Do not block them up with curtains, plants, or
bunches of flowers;--these last poison the air, in small rooms.

"Fresh air is needful for your health. As often as you can, open all
your windows, if only for a short time in bad weather; in fine weather,
keep them open, but never sit in draughts. When you get up, open the
windows wide, and throw down the bed-clothes, that they may be exposed
to fresh air some hours, daily, before they are made up. Keep your
bed-clothes clean; hang them to the fire when you can. Avoid wearing at
night what you wear in the day. Hang up your day-clothes at night.
Except in the severest weather, in small, crowded sleeping-rooms, a
little opening at the top of the window-sash is very important; or you
will find one window pane of perforated zinc very useful. You will not
catch cold half so easily by breathing pure air at night. Let not the
beds be directly under the windows. Sleeping in exhausted air creates a
desire for stimulants.

"Pure water is needful for your health. Wash your bodies as well as your
faces, rubbing them all over with a coarse cloth. If you cannot wash
thus every morning, pray do so once a week. Crying and cross children
are often pacified by a gentle washing of their little hands and
faces--it soothes them. Babies' heads should be washed carefully, every
morning with soap. No scurf should be suffered to remain upon them. Get
rid of all slops and dirty water at once. Disease, and even death, is
often the consequence of our own negligence. Wash your rooms and
passages at least once a week, use plenty of clean water; but do not let
your children stay in them while they are wet, it may bring on croup or
inflammation of the chest. If you read your Bibles, which it is
earnestly hoped you do, you will find how cleanliness, both as to the
person and habitation, was taught to the Jews by God himself; and we
read in the 4th chapter of Nehemiah that when they were building their
second temple, and defending their lives against their foes, having no
time for rest, they contrived to put off their clothes for washing. It
is a good old saying, that _cleanliness is next to godliness_. See Heb.
x. 22.

"Wholesome food is needful for your health. Buy the most strengthening.
Pieces of fresh beef and mutton go the farthest. Eat plenty of fresh
salt with food; it prevents disease. Pray do not let your children waste
their pennies in tarts, cakes, bull's eyes, hardbake, sour fruit, &c.,
they are very unwholesome, and hurt the digestion. People would often,
at twenty years of age, have a nice little sum of money to help them on
in the world, if they had put in the savings' bank the money so wasted;
Cocoa is cheaper and much more nourishing than _tea_. None of these
liquids should be taken _hot_, but lukewarm; when hot they inflame the
stomach, and produce indigestion.

"We are all made to breathe the pure air of heaven, and therefore much
illness is caused by being constantly in-doors. Let all persons make a
point, whenever it is possible, of taking exercise in the _open air_ for
at least an hour and a half _daily_. _Time_ would be saved in the long
run by the increased energy and strength gained, and by the warding off
of disease."

Let it not be supposed that it is not the duty of every young lady to
take due care of her health, and to preserve in all its power of utility
every portion of vigor which has been bestowed on her.

With many young ladies, it appears to be a maxim to do everything in
their power to destroy the health which is so much wanted in the real
business of life, and which forms so important a requisite to happiness.
In the first place, as to hours--they never leave the ball-room until
utterly exhausted, and scarcely fit to crawl to bed. The noon-day sleep,
the scarcely touched breakfast, that most important meal, are followed
by preparations for the succeeding night's pleasures, or in head-aching
morning calls, driving about in a close carriage, or lounging on a sofa,
in an over-heated room, reading novels.

Dressing follows; the warm wrapper or dress is thrown aside; over the
tightly drawn corsets is fastened a flimsy dress, with an inch of
sleeve; the neck laid bare; thin stockings drawn on, in place of thick
ones, and the consumption-seeker goes forth to the ball-room again.

"At times, you miss from the gay assemblage some former ornament--you
inquire about her--she has taken cold. Inflammation of the lungs, caught
it in an accidental draught of air by one of these fair half-dressed
beings, carried off, not long since, one of the gayest and fairest of
the belles of the season--after an illness of three days.

"Preservation of the health ought, from an early stage of existence, to
be enforced as a duty upon the young. To walk daily; to have daily
recourse, in summer, even twice a day, to the sponging with cold water,
or the shower-bath;--to eat sufficiently of plain, nutritious food; to
keep the mind calm--these are _duties_;--they should be habitually
exercised. Care should be taken not to come out heated, with a shawl
just pinned across the shoulders, from a heated room. Where there is
delicacy of the lungs or windpipe, yet not sufficient to render a
withdrawal from evening parties necessary, the use of a respirator at
night is desirable. It is usual to have recourse to this valuable
invention only when disease is actually existing--as a preventive, it is
neglected. Yet, preserving the temperature of a warm room, it is an
excellent precaution, and can easily be assumed when the shawl or cloak
is put on. The atmosphere of a city is destructive where there is any
pulmonary delicacy, and who shall say, where there is _not_ pulmonary
delicacy? In this climate, there is a tendency to it, more or less, in
almost every family,--at all events, it is too easily induced in our
predisposed constitutions, by cold, aided by the debilitating effect of
heated rooms and an artificial mode of existence, and accelerated also,
most decidedly, by bared shoulders. For, in this climate, it is scarcely
ever safe to lay bare that portion of the frame, the back and chest in
which the lungs are seated; and, although custom may greatly lead to
diminish the injurious effects, the sudden chill may strike, and may
never be recovered.

"During every season, certain people have 'head colds,' coughs, and
'feverish colds.' These are produced by certain states of climate acting
on certain states of constitution. At particular seasons such complaints
abound--at others they abound still more; and again, from some
singularity, they prevail so much that people say, there is an
_Influenza_.

"Influenza has been long known in the world. It has often visited
Europe; and made its appearance on our shores with greater severity
than at present. It has sometimes been very severe, and left many
persons ill for a year or two.

"The symptoms of influenza need not be dwelt on, as they have been so
generally felt by our readers or their friends. It varies in different
people, to be sure, both in kind and in degree. Considering the number
of people it attacks, it may be looked on as an innocent disease; but,
on the other hand, looking at the increase it has made in the number of
deaths, it is an exceedingly serious one after all.

"In simple cases--confinement to a pure and temperate air, warm drinks,
and a warm bath, or, at least, a warm foot-bath, with an extra blanket,
and a little more rest than usual, keeping to mild food, and toast and
water, and taking, if necessary, a dose of aperient medicine,--is all
that is required. In serious cases, the domestic treatment must become
professional. Mustard plasters to the back relieve the headache. Squills
find other medicines 'loosen' the outstanding cough. Bark and wine, and
even cold baths are sometimes requisite for the weakness left behind.
But these things can only be used with discrimination by a regular
professional man.

"Supposing that the seeds of disease have not been laid in childhood,
and that there is no particular predisposition to any malady in the
constitution, a young woman enters life with every fair prospect of
enjoying tolerable health;--yet, how variable, and delicate, and
complaining, do the majority of women become! What a vast expense is
incurred, during the course of their lives, in physicians, medicine,
change of air, baths abroad and at home, and journeys! How few women can
walk,--or can suppress nervous feelings,--or can eat like reasonable
beings: how many suffer, or say they suffer from debility, headaches,
dyspepsia, a tendency to colds, eternal sore throats, rheumatic attacks,
and the whole list of polite complaints! With all our modern wisdom,
with all our books on health, our smatterings of physiological science,
our open carriages, sponging baths, and attention to diet, women now are
a far more feeble race than our grandmothers, or even our mothers, were.
What daughter can walk half as far as her mother can? What young woman
can take the active part that her mother did? In most families, the
order of things is reversed. It is not a child trembling for her
mother's health, and fearing, lest her parent, no longer young, should
be fatigued; but it is the mother who is always striving to spare her
child exertions which she can herself perfectly well undergo, but which
the enfeebled child of modern self-indulgence dare not encounter.

"Yes! we are a self-indulgent race, this present generation. Witness our
easily excited feelings; witness our late hours of rising, our sofas and
easy chairs, our useless days and dissipated nights! Witness our pallid
faces, our forms, sometimes attenuated and repulsive while yet in early
life, age marching, not creeping, on before his time; or witness our
over-fed and over-expanded forms, enfeebled by indolence, and suffering
the worst species of debility--the debility of _fat_. Witness our doing
those things by deputy which our grandmothers did themselves; witness
our host of scents and perfumed waters on our dressing-tables; our
over-refinement, which amounts to an enervating puerility, and our
incapacity of parting with one accustomed indulgence, even at the
bidding of the learned and disinterested adviser?

"'In the education of women,' writes a modern physician, 'too little
attention is given to subdue the imaginative faculty, and to moderate
sensibility; on the contrary, they are generally fostered; and, instead
of a vigorous intellect and healthy condition of mind, we find
imagination and sentiment predominant over the reasoning faculties, and
laying the foundation of hysterical, hypochondriacal, and even maniacal
diseases.'[B] It is, in fact, this want of judgment in the management of
early life that produces so much misery when women are called upon to
perform an important part in society, and when all that exertion can do
is required at their hands.

[B] "The Sick-Room," by Dr. A. T. Thomson.

"The duration of sleep should not, in the adult, exceed six or eight
hours; women injure their health greatly by excess in this respect. On
rising, all women should use some mode of cold or tepid bath; and,
indeed, in this respect the practice of the present day is admirable;
there is every facility for the bath. To some, the use of the
shower-bath is deleterious, and to all inconvenient, and not likely to
be resorted to except when positively ordered. Dr. Combe recommends for
_general_ use the tepid or warm bath, as being much more suitable than
the cold bath, 'especially in the winter for those who are not robust,
and full of animal heat.' When the constitution is not sufficiently
vigorous to ensure reaction after the cold bath, by producing a warm
glow over the surface, 'its use,' observes the same admirable writer,
'inevitably does harm.' But he enforces, that 'in order to promote a due
exhalation from the skin, the warm, the tepid, or the shower-bath, as a
means of preserving health, ought to be in as common use as a change of
apparel, for it is equally a measure of necessary cleanliness.' He
inclines to the use of the tepid bath, as likely to be the most
generally efficacious.

"I have known the most beneficial effects from a modification of this
advice, namely, from using a sponging-bath, into which you pour a jug of
warm water, and in which you stand, whilst you sponge the body and limbs
profusely with cold water. A strong friction should be employed after
this process, either with horsehair gloves or with a large coarse towel,
and few persons will find the use of the sponging-bath disagree with
them when thus employed. It is, indeed, incredible, when we consider the
importance of the exhalation performed by the skin, to what extent
ablution is neglected, not only, as Dr. Combe specifies, in charitable
institutions and seminaries for the young, but by ladies, in ordinary
circumstances, to whom the use of the bath could be productive of no
inconvenience. In nervous complaints, which are more or less the
besetting evil of womankind, the bath, in its various forms, becomes an
invaluable aid.

"In the formation of those habits which are necessary for the
preservation of health, another circumstance, which, from its importance
to health, cannot be deemed trifling should be mentioned. It is a
general practice that beds should be made as soon as the occupants have
left their rooms, and before the air has been freely admitted to play
upon the recent depositary of the human frame; but this should be
avoided. The bed-linen and blankets should be taken off, and the windows
opened, so that, for an hour or more, a thorough ventilation should be
procured.

"Upon another point, the inconsistency and mental blindness of women are
almost inconceivable--the insufficiency of their dress to resist the
attacks of our variable climate. How few women clothe themselves like
rational beings! Although, in latter years, they have wisely adopted the
use of warm dresses, and, more especially, of the valuable Scottish
plaid, yet how commonly they neglect the aid of flannel in preserving
them not only from cold, but in securing a necessary circulation of
vitality in the skin! 'The necessary effect of deficient circulation in
the skin,' remarks Dr. Combe, 'is to throw a disproportionate mass of
blood inwards; and when this condition exists, insufficient clothing
perpetuates the evil, until internal disease is generated, and health is
irrecoverably lost.' How common is the complaint among young women,
especially those of sedentary habits, of chilliness, cold feet, and
other symptoms of deficient circulation! and yet how impossible would it
often be--for women are usually obstinate on this head--to induce them
to exchange the thin silk stocking for a warm merino one, or to
substitute a proper walking shoe for the paper-like articles which they
designate by that name! Hence arise many diseases, which are, by
insensible degrees, fostered in the system by the unequal distribution
of the blood oppressing the internal organs. The habitual tendency to
that chilliness which has been referred to should never be disregarded,
'laying, as it does,' says Dr. Combe, 'the foundation of tubercles in
the lungs, and other maladies, which show themselves only when arrived
at an incurable stage.' 'All those who value health, and have common
sense, will therefore take warning from signs like these, and never rest
until equilibrium of action be restored.' Warm clothing, exercise in the
open air, sponging with tepid water and vinegar, or the warm bath, the
use of a flesh-brush or hair-glove, are adapted to remedy these serious
and threatening evils.

"But, whilst insufficiency of clothing is to be deprecated, excessive
wrapping up should also be avoided. Great differences exist between the
power of generating heat and resisting cold in individuals, and it is
therefore impossible to prescribe general rules upon the subject of
clothing. The best maxim is, not to dress in an invariable way in all
cases, but to put on clothing sufficient in the individual case, to
protect the body effectively against the sensation of cold.[C]

[C] Dr. Combe.

"The insufficiency of warmth in the clothing of females constitutes only
one part of its injurious effects. The tightness of dress obstructs the
insensible perspiration hurtfully, and produces an irregular
circulation. Every part and function of the human frame are linked
together so closely, that we cannot act wrongly towards one organ
without all suffering, nor act rightly without all sharing the benefit
of our judgment and good sense.

"The mischief arising from cold or wet feet is admitted by all persons
who have given the subject of health even the most casual consideration.
In conversing with very aged people, you will generally find a disregard
of diet, and very different notions and practices upon the subject of
exercise and ablution; but they all agree in the necessity of keeping
the feet dry. I remember inquiring of a venerable clergyman, who, up to
the age of ninety-six, had enjoyed a fair proportion of health, after a
youth of delicacy. I asked him what system he pursued. 'Now,' was his
reply, 'I never took much care what I ate; I have always been temperate.
I never minded the weather; but I always took care to keep my feet dry
and well shod.' Wet and damp are, indeed, more unwholsome when applied
to the feet than when they affect other parts; 'because they receive a
greater supply of blood to carry on a high degree of perspiration, and
because their distance from the heart, or centre of circulation,
diminishes the force with which this is carried on, and thus leaves them
more susceptible from external causes.'[D]

[D] Dr. Combe.

"God, in his infinite benevolence, has given to his creatures other
means of acquiring a healthy warmth than by clothing; he has endowed us
with the power of exercise--that blessing which women of weak judgment
and indolent natures are so prone to neglect and disparage. Most ladies
appear to think that the privilege of walking is only intended for
persons of inferior condition. They busy themselves, in their in-door
occupations all the morning, take a hearty luncheon, and drive out in
their carriages until dinner-time. It is partly owing to such customs
as these that a rapid deterioration takes place in the physical state of
our sex, in their looks, and in their power of utility, and enjoyment of
happiness. God never intended us to be inactive.

"The chief purpose of the muscles with which we are endowed, is to
enable us to carry into effect the volitions of the mind; and, whilst
fulfilling this grand object, the active exercise of the muscles is
conducive to the well-being of many other important functions. The
processes of digestion, respiration, secretion, absorption, and
nutrition, are promoted, and the healthful condition of the whole body
influenced. The mind also is depressed or exhilarated by the proper or
improper use of muscular exercise; for man is intended for a life of
activity: nor can his functions ever go on so properly as when he duly
exercises those organs with which Nature has endowed him. The evils
arising from want of exercise are numerous:--the circulation, from the
absence of due stimulus, becomes languid, the appetite and digestion are
weakened, the respiration is imperfect, and the blood becomes so
ill-conditioned, that when distributed through the body it is inadequate
to communicate the necessary stimulus to healthy and vigorous action.
These points being established, it now becomes a consideration in what
mode, or at what periods, ladies, in society, can most advantageously
avail themselves of that privilege which is granted to so many, denied,
comparatively, to so few.

"Much is said on the benefits of walking before breakfast, and to a
person in full vigor it may, there is no doubt, be highly salutary;
whilst, to the delicate, it will prove more hurtful than beneficial,
producing a sense of weariness which destroys all the future pleasures
of the day. I am disposed to think, however, from observation, that
walking before breakfast may be rendered beneficial almost to any one by
degrees. Most persons walk too far the first day; they are proud of the
effort, become, nevertheless, exhausted, and dare not repeat it. A first
walk before breakfast should not exceed a quarter of a mile; it should
be extended, very gradually, and, in delicate women, with great care,
lest over-fatigue should ensue. It is, however, so valuable a habit,
such a saving of time, so refreshing, so soothing, that many sacrifices
of inclination should be made to procure it; in a gay season the
freshness and seclusion of a morning's walk is peculiarly needed, and
when it becomes so difficult to take exercise in the subsequent part of
the day, the afternoon being too short, and the evening too much
occupied. And the morning's walk, stolen from the hour given to a
species of repose which seldom rests, may be, without the reproach of
indolence, followed by the afternoon's siesta--a practice much to be
commended, and greatly conducive to rest of nerves and invigoration of
the frame, when used in moderation.

"Exercise may be taken, by the robust, at any time, even after eating
heartily, but the delicate ought to avoid that risk; they should resort
to it only when the frame is vigorous enough to bear it, and this is
usually from one to four or five hours after eating. The morning is,
therefore, the best time; but exercise ought not to be delayed until
some degree of exhaustion has taken place from want of food, as in that
case it dissipates rather than renovates the remaining strength, and
impairs digestion. Exercise immediately before meals is therefore,
unless very gentle, injurious; if it has been violent, before eating
rest should intervene. 'Appetite,' says Dr. Combe, 'revives after
repose.'

"Of all modes of exercise, that which nature has bestowed upon us,
walking, is decidedly the most salutary; and the prevailing system of
substituting horse and carriage exercise almost entirely for it, is far
from being advantageous to the present generation. Walking, which has
for its aim some pleasing pursuit, and, therefore, animates the mind, is
efficacious to the majority. Gardening, which is a modification of
walking, offers many advantages both to the delicate and the strong, and
it is a species of exercise which we can adjust to our powers. In a
continued walk you must go on--you must return; there is no appeal, even
if you have gone too far, and would willingly give up any further
exertion. But, while gardening, you are still at home--your exertions
are devoted to objects the most interesting, because progressive; hope
and faith form a part of your stimulus. The happy future, when flowers
shall bloom around you, supersedes in your thoughts the vexatious
present or the mournful past. About you are the budding treasures of
spring, or the gorgeous productions of summer, or the rich hues of those
beauties which autumn pours forth most lavishly before it departs,--and
is succeeded by winter. Above you are the gay warblers, who seem to hail
you as you mingle in the sylvan scenes which are not all theirs, but
which you share and appropriate. The ruffled temper, the harassed mind,
may find a solace in the occupation of gardening, which aids the effect
of exercise and the benign influence of fresh air. Stores of future and
never-dying interest are buried in the earth with every seed, only to
spring up again redoubled in their value. A lady, as a writer in the
'Quarterly Review' observes, should 'not only _have_ but know her
plants.' And her enjoyment of those delights is truly enhanced by that
personal care, without which few gardens, however superintended by the
scientific gardener, can prosper, and which bless as they thrive; her
plants bestow health on the frame which is bowed down to train
them--they give to her the blessing of a calm and rational
pleasure--they relieve her from the necessity of excitement--they
promote alike, in the wealthy and the poor, these gentle exertions which
are coupled with the most poetical and the sweetest of associations.

"Exercise on horseback is not equally attainable with the two modes
which I have just specified; when it is, the accelerated circulation,
the change of scene and of ideas, are highly beneficial. Where the lungs
are weak, it is thought by the learned to possess a great advantage over
walking, as it does not hurry the breathing. The gentleness of the
exercise enables a delicate person to enjoy the advantage of open air
and motion for a much longer period than could be endured in the action
of walking. From the tendency of horse exercise to equalize the
circulation and stimulate the skin, it is invaluable, too, for the
nervous and dyspeptic portion of young women, among whom, unhappily,
such complaints are but too prevalent.

"Dancing, which is the most frequent mode of exercise with ladies in
great cities, practiced, as it is, in heated rooms, and exhausting from
its violence, often does more harm than good, from producing languor and
over-fatigue. Unhappily there are but few modes of exercise in-doors
adapted for women. If, from any circumstances, they are confined to
their homes, and they become feverish and languid from want of exercise,
it never occurs to them to throw open the windows and to walk about, or
to make use of battledore and shuttlecock, or any other mode of
exertion. They continue sitting, reading, or walking, or lounging, or
sleeping, or gossiping,--whilst the bloom of health is rapidly giving
place to the wanness and debility of the imprisoned frame.

"It is often the custom of young women to declare that they cannot walk,
sometimes from indolence, no doubt, and want of habit, occasionally from
real inability. But if we investigate the causes of this real inability,
we shall often find it to proceed from an improper choice of time in
taking exercise, or from a defective judgment in the manner of taking
it. Many women exhaust and fatigue themselves with the duties of their
house, and by a thousand trying occupations, including that which forms
a serious item in the day's work, namely, running up and down stairs,
and then discover that they cannot walk. Others go to extremes, and walk
for a certain distance, whether they feel fatigued or not by such
exertions. 'It is only,' observes Dr. Combe, 'by a diffusion of the laws
of exercise as a part of useful education, that individuals can be
enabled to avoid such mistakes,' To be beneficial, exercise should
always be proportioned to the strength and to the constitution of an
individual. When it causes extreme fatigue or exhaustion, it is
hurtful; it ought to be resumed always after a period of rest, and
adopted regularly, not, as too many persons are in the habit of doing,
once in four or five days. The average walk which a young woman in good
health and in ordinary circumstances, may take, without undue and
injurious fatigue, is from four to five miles a-day. From this rule I
except the _very_ young. It has been found by experience that until
twenty-two or three the strength is not completely matured. The rate of
mortality, as it has been proved by statistical tables, increases in all
classes of society from fourteen until the age of twenty-three, when it
begins to decrease.

"Another precaution which I would recommend to those who have the
regulation of families under their care, relates to the subject of
ventilation. The heated state of our rooms in ordinary occupation is one
great source of all those mischiefs which arise from catching cold, a
subject on which Mr. Abernethy was wont to declare, that 'a very useful
book might be written.' There are some houses into which one can never
enter with impunity, from the want of due ventilation. Housemaids, more
especially, have an insupportable objection to opening windows, on
account of the dust which flies in and settles upon the furniture. This
evil--for the soiling of furniture certainly may be called an evil--may
easily be obviated by fastening a muslin blind against the open window,
or by pinning a large piece of coarse muslin against it, so that the
dusty particles will be excluded.

"Generally our ordinary sitting-rooms are tolerably well ventilated by
the opening and shutting of doors, the size of the fire-place, &c., but
in our bed-rooms the vitiation of the air is far greater, owing to these
rooms being wholly closed during the seven or eight hours in which we
sleep in them, and, also, owing to the mass of curtains with which we
usually take care to surround our beds. In this respect we are, indeed,
improved, by the introduction of French bedsteads, which are among the
most valuable of modern suggestions. But, notwithstanding this
improvement, and many others which reflection and science have
contributed to introduce, we incur much suffering from our ignorance and
prejudice on the subject of ventilation. For generations, society has
experienced the evil effects of the want of ventilation, and has felt in
towns its results in the form of fevers, general ill-health, cutaneous
and nervous diseases; and yet the most direful ignorance continues on
this subject. Hospitals are among the few well-ventilated buildings
which are erected, because an idea prevails that ventilation is
essential for the sick, but it seems to have been forgotten that what is
essential for the recovery of health is equally necessary for its
preservation. 'Were,' says Dr. Combe, 'a general knowledge of the
structure of man to constitute a regular part of a liberal education,
such inconsistencies as this would soon disappear, and the scientific
architect would speedily devise the best means for supplying our houses
with pure air, as he has already supplied them with pure water.'"


MISCELLANEOUS.


There are many little pieces of rudeness, only too common, which, while
they evince ill-breeding, and are many of them extremely annoying, yet
they are met with every day, and in persons otherwise well-bred.

As they come under no particular head, they will merely be mentioned
here, as habits carefully to avoid.

It is rude to look over the shoulder of a person who is either reading
or writing, yet it is done every day.

To stand with the arms a-kimbo, the hands on the hips, or with the arms
crossed, while conversing, is exceedingly unlady-like.

Avoid restless movements either with the hands, or feet; to sit
perfectly quiet, without stiffness, easily, yet at the same time almost
motionless, is one of the surest proofs of high-breeding.

If you wish to make yourself agreeable to any one, talk as much as you
please about his or her affairs, and as little as possible about your
own.

Avoid passing before persons seated in the same room with yourself. If
you must rise to move from place to place, endeavor to pass behind the
chairs of your companions. Above all, never pass between two persons
who are conversing together.

Avoid personal remarks; they evince a want of judgment, good taste,
kindness, and politeness. To exchange glances or significant smiles with
a third person, whilst engaged in a conversation with a second, is a
proof of low-breeding. Suppressed laughter, shrugging of the shoulders,
rolling of the eyes, and significant glances are all marks of
ill-breeding.

If you meet a gentleman at the foot of a flight of stairs, do not go up
before him. Stop, bow, and motion to him to precede you. He will return
your bow, and run up, leaving you to follow him.

Never whisper, or make any confidential communication in company. Keep
private remarks for private occasions.

Accepting presents from gentlemen is a dangerous thing. It is better to
avoid any such obligations, and, if you make it a rule _never_ to accept
such presents, you will avoid hurting any one's feelings, and save
yourself from all further perplexity.

In meeting your elderly friends in the street, look at them long enough
to give them an opportunity of recognizing you; and if they do so,
return their salutations respectfully, not with the familiar nod you
would give to one of your own age.

Never remain seated, whilst a person older than yourself is standing
before you, talking to you.

Never lounge on a sofa, while there are those in the room, whose years
give them a better claim to this sort of indulgence.

Never tease a person to do what she has once declined.

Never refuse a request or invitation in order to be urged, and accept
afterwards. Comply at once. If the request is sincere, you will thus
afford gratification; if not, the individual making it deserves to be
punished for insincerity, by being taken at her word.

It is not polite when asked what part of a dish you will have, to say,
"Any part--it is quite indifferent to me;" it is hard enough to carve
for one's friends, without choosing for them.

It is not polite to entertain a visitor with your own family history, or
the events of your own household.

It is not polite for married ladies to talk, in the presence of
gentlemen, of the difficulty they have in procuring domestics, and how
good-for-nothing they are when procured.

It is not polite to put food upon the plate of a guest without asking
leave, or to press her to eat more than she wants.

It is not polite to stare under ladies' bonnets, as if you suspected
they had stolen the linings from you, or wore something that was not
their own.

Never affect a foolish reserve in a mixed company, keeping aloof from
others as if in a state of mental abstraction. If your brain is so full
and so busy that you cannot attend to the little civilities, cheerful
chit-chat, and light amusements of society, keep out of it.

Never read in company. You may open a book to look over the engravings,
if you will, but do not attend to the letter-press until you are alone.

Never jest upon serious subjects. Avoid scandal. If another person
attempts to open a conversation upon scandalous matters, check her. Say
gravely that it is painful for you to hear of the faults or misfortunes
of others, where your counsel and assistance can be of no service.

Many persons, whose tongues never utter a scandalous word, will, by a
significant glance, a shrug of the shoulders, a sneer, or curl of the
lip, really make more mischief, and suggest harder thoughts than if they
used the severest language. This is utterly detestable. If you have your
tongue under perfect control, you can also control your looks, and you
are cowardly, contemptible, and wicked, when you encourage and
countenance slander by a look or gesture.

Never speak of gentlemen by their first name unless you are related to
them. It is very unlady-like to use the surname, without the prefix, Mr.
To hear a lady speak of Smith, Brown, Anderson, instead of Mr. Anderson
or Mr. Smith sounds extremely vulgar, and is a mark of low breeding.

Avoid eccentricity either in dress, conversation, or manner. It is a
form of vanity, as it will attract attention, and is therefore in bad
taste.

Never act as if in a hurry. Ease of action need not imply laziness, but
simply polite self-possession.

Never laugh at your own wit. That is the part of those who hear you, and
if you take their duty from them, they may omit to join you in your
laugh.

Do not indulge in ridicule. It is coarse and unlady-like as well as
unfeeling. Like every other personality, it should be carefully avoided.

Never handle any ornament or article of furniture in the room in which
you are a visitor.

Do not lean your head against the wall. You leave an indelible mark upon
the paper, or, if the wall is whitewashed, you give your hair a dingy,
dusty look, by bringing it into contact with the lime.

Never lean forward upon a table. Let neither hands nor arms rest there
heavily.

To bestow flattery upon a person to his face, betrays a want of
delicacy; yet, not less so, rudely to rebuke his errors or mention his
faults, and not have a tender regard for his feelings. It is not
improper, and may sometimes be very kind to mention to an individual
what yourself and others think of his conduct or performances, when it
is for his interest or usefulness to know it. To express to a friend
deserved approbation is generally proper.

Nothing but a quick perception of the feelings of others, and a ready
sympathy with them, can regulate the thousand little proprieties that
belong to visits of condolence and congratulation. There is one hint,
however, as regards the former, which may perhaps be useful, and that
is, not to touch upon the cause of affliction, unless the mourner leads
the way to it; and if a painful effort is made to appear cheerful, and
to keep aloof from the subject, do not make the slightest allusion that
could increase this feeling.

When at table to _press_ your guests to take more than they have
inclination for, is antiquated and rude. This does not, however,
prevent your recommending particular dishes to their attention.
Everything like compulsion is quite exploded.

It is a great mistake to suppose that the best music is the most
difficult of execution. The very reverse, generally speaking, is the
case. Music of a high order certainly demands high gifts and attainments
on the part of the performer. But the gifts of nature may be possessed
by the amateur as well as by the professor; and the attainments of art
may be the result of moderate study and application. A young lady
possessed of a sweet and tunable voice, a good ear, intelligence, and
feeling, may cultivate music in its grandest and most beautiful forms,
and may render its practice a source of the purest enjoyment, not only
to herself but to her domestic and social circle.

The various ceremonies observed in refined society are very useful in
settling little points, on which there might otherwise be much doubt and
perplexity; but they should never be so strenuously insisted upon as to
make an accidental omission of them a ground of resentment, and an
apology should always be accepted in their place.

Your enjoyment of a party depends far less on what you find there, than
on what you carry with you. The vain, the ambitious, the designing, will
be full of anxiety when they go, and of disappointment when they return.
A short triumph will be followed by a deep mortification, and the
selfishness of their aims defeats itself. If you go to see, and to hear,
and to make the best of whatever occurs, with a disposition to admire
all that is beautiful, and to sympathize in the pleasures of others, you
can hardly fail to spend the time pleasantly. The less you think of
yourself and your claims to attention, the better. If you are much
attended to, receive it modestly, and consider it as a happy accident;
if you are little noticed, use your leisure in observing others.

It were unjust and ungrateful to conceive that the amusements of life
are altogether forbidden by its beneficent Author. They serve, on the
contrary, important purposes in the economy of human life, and are
destined to produce important effects both upon our happiness and
character. They are, in the first place, in the language of the
Psalmist, "the wells of the desert;" the kind resting-places in which
toil may relax, in which the weary spirit may recover its tone, and
where the desponding mind may resume its strength and its hopes. It is
not, therefore, the use of the innocent amusements of life which is
dangerous, but the abuse of them; it is not when they are occasionally,
but when they are constantly pursued; and when, from being an occasional
indulgence, it becomes an habitual desire.

Women in the middle rank are brought up with the idea that if they
engage in some occupations, they shall lose "their position in society."
Suppose it to be so; surely it is wiser to quit a position we cannot
honestly maintain, than to live dependent upon the bounty and caprice of
others; better to labor with our hands, than eat the bread of idleness;
or submit to feel that we must not give utterance to our real opinions,
or express our honest indignation at being required to act a base or
unworthy part. And in all cases, however situated, every female ought to
learn how all household affairs are managed, were it only for the
purpose of being able to direct others. There cannot be any disgrace in
learning how to make the bread we eat, to cook our dinners, to mend our
clothes, or even to clean the house. Better to be found busily engaged
in removing the dust from the furniture, than to let it accumulate there
until a visitor leaves palpable traces where his hat or his arm have
been laid upon a table.

Never put temptation in a servant's way; never be severe for trifling
offences, such as accidentally breaking anything, but reserve your
severity for those offences which are moral evils, such as a want of
truth, general laxity of principle, &c. The orders given to servants
should be clear and definite; and they should be trained as much as
possible to perform their duties regularly, so that every morning they
may know pretty nearly what will be expected of them during the day. It
is a great point to live, when you are alone, as if you expected
company; that is to say, to have everything so neat and orderly that you
need not be ashamed of any one seeing your table. It is very little more
trouble, and certainly no more expense; and the advantages in point of
comfort are unspeakable.

If a foolish girl, by dint of squeezing and bracing with busk and bones,
secures the conventional beauty of a wasp waist, she is tolerably
certain to gain an addition she by no means bargained for, a _red nose_,
which, in numberless instances, is produced by no other cause than the
unnatural girth, obstructing circulation, and causing stagnation of the
blood, in that prominent and important feature. Often, in assemblages of
the fair, we have seen noses faultless in form, but tinged with the
abhorred hue, to which washes and cosmetics have been applied in wild
despair; but in vain! If the lovely owners had known the cause, how
speedily the effect would have vanished! for surely the most perverse
admirer of a distorted spine and compressed lungs, would deem the
acquisition of a dram-drinker's nose, too heavy a condition to be
complied with.

A well-bred woman will not demand as a right what she may have a claim
to expect from the politeness of the other sex, nor show dissatisfaction
and resentment if she fancies herself neglected. For want of good
breeding some females are exorbitant in their expectations, and appear
unthankful even when everything is done which true politeness demands.
Young women should guard against this unamiable defect.

A well-bred person will take care not to use slang words and
expressions. There never has been a time, at least in late years, when
there have not been some two or three cant vulgarisms in vogue among all
the blackguards of the country. Sometimes these phrases have been caught
up from some popular song or farce; sometimes, we believe, they have had
their origin "where assembles the collective wisdom of the country." A
dozen of these terse but meaningless sayings now dance before our
recollection, for who has not heard them, even to loathing? But from
whatever source they may have been drawn, or whatever wit there might be
in their original position, the obtrusion of them into decent society is
an unwarrantable piece of impertinence.

A habit of inserting into familiar conversation such phrases as "You
know," "You perceive," "You understand," "Says he," "Says she," is, so
far as those matters extend, a sign of a want of good breeding.

With regard to any specific rules for dressing, we do not pretend to
arbitrate in such matters. Let a true sense of propriety, of the fitness
of things, regulate all your habits of living and dressing, and it will
produce such a beautiful harmony and consistency of character as will
throw a charm around you that all will feel, though few may comprehend.
Always consider well whether the articles of dress, which you wish to
purchase, are suited to your age, your condition, your means; to the
climate, to the particular use to which you mean to put them; and let
the principles of good taste keep you from the extremes of the fashion,
and regulate the form, so as to combine utility and beauty, whilst the
known rules of harmony in colors save you from shocking the eye of the
artist by incongruous mixtures.

"Manners," says the eloquent Edmund Burke, "are of more importance than
laws. Upon them, in a great measure, the laws depend. The law can touch
us here and there, now and then. Manners are what vex or sooth, corrupt
or purify, exalt or debase, barbarise or refine, by a constant, steady,
uniform, insensible operation, like that of the air we breathe in. They
give their whole form and colors to our lives. According to their
quality they aid morals, they supply them, or they totally destroy
them."


FOUR IMPORTANT RULES.

"Order is heaven's first law."

1. A suitable place for everything, and everything in its place.

2. A proper time for everything, and everything done in its time.

3. A distinct name for everything, and everything called by its name.

4. A certain use for everything, and everything put to its use.

Much time would be saved; many disputes avoided; numerous articles kept
from being lost or injured, and constant confusion and disorder
prevented, by the strict observance of these four important rules.

Dispense with ornaments altogether rather than wear mock jewelry.

Depend upon it, silvery hair is better adapted to the faded cheeks of
middle age, than are tresses of nut-brown or coal-black, or any of the
mysterious shades produced by a dirty decoction called Hair-dye.

The habitual use of very thin shoes invariably makes the feet tender,
and a host of other inconveniences arise therefrom. If you are tempted
to purchase tight shoes, don't, for several reasons; but one may
suffice--you will not wear them more than twice.

If you are not quite certain of the line between neatness and the
reverse, be over-scrupulous about your under garments. The edge of a
soiled petticoat, or the glimpse of a rent stocking is singularly
disenchanting.

Men of sense--I speak not of boys of eighteen to five and twenty,
during their age of detestability--men who are worth the trouble of
falling in love with, and the fuss and inconvenience, of being married
to, and to whom one might, after some inward conflicts, and a course
perhaps of fasting and self-humiliation, submit to fulfil those
ill-contrived vows of obedience which are exacted at the altar, such men
want, for their wives, companions, not dolls; and women who would suit
such men are just as capable of loving fervently, deeply, as the
Ringlettina, full of song and sentiment, who cannot walk, cannot rise in
the morning, cannot tie her bonnet-strings, faints if she has to lace
her boots, never in her life brushed out her beautiful hair, would not
for the world prick her delicate finger with plain sewing; but who can
work harder than a factory girl upon a lamb's-wool shepherdess, dance
like a dervise at balls, ride like a fox-hunter, and, whilst every
breath of air gives her cold in her father's house, and she cannot think
how people can endure this climate, she can go out to parties in
February and March, with an inch of sleeve and half-a-quarter of
boddice.

All circumstances well examined, there can be no doubt Providence has
willed that man should be the head of the human race, even as woman is
its heart; that he should be its strength, as she is its solace; that he
should be its wisdom, as she is its grace; that he should be its mind,
its impetus, and its courage, as she is its sentiment, its charm, and
its consolation. Too great an amelioration could not be effected, in our
opinion, in the system generally adopted, which, far from correcting or
even compensating the presumed intellectual inequality of the two
sexes, generally serves only to increase it. By placing, for example,
dancing and needle-work at the extreme poles of female study, the one
for its attraction and the other for its utility, and by not filling the
immense interval with anything more valuable than mere monotonous,
imperfect, superficial, and totally unphilosophical notions, this system
has made of the greater number of female seminaries, establishments
which may be compared alike to nursery-grounds for coquettes and
sempstresses. It is never remembered that in domestic life conversation
is of more importance than the needle or choregraphy; that a husband is
neither a pacha nor a lazzarone, who must be perpetually intoxicated or
unceasingly patched; that there are upon the conjugal dial many long
hours of calm intimacy, of cool contemplation, of cold tenderness; and
that the husband makes another home elsewhere if his own hearth offers
him only silence; or what is a hundred times worse, merely frivolous and
monotonous discourse. Let the woman play the gossip at a given moment,
that is all very well; let her superintend the laundry or the kitchen at
another, that is also very well; but these duties only comprise
two-thirds of her mission. Ought care not to be taken that during the
rest of her time she could also be capable of becoming to her husband a
rational friend, a cheerful partner, an interesting companion, or, at
least, an efficient listener, whose natural intelligence, even if
originally inferior to his own, shall, by the help of education, have
been raised to the same level!

Pascal says: "Kind words do not cost much. They never blister the tongue
or lips. And we have never heard of any mental trouble arising from
this quarter. Though they do not cost much. 1. They help one's own good
nature. Soft words soften our own soul. Angry words are fuel to the
flame of wrath, and make it blaze more fiercely. 2. Kind words make
other people good natured. Cold words freeze people, and hot words
scorch them, and bitter words make them bitter, and wrathful words make
them wrathful. There is such a rush of all other kinds of words in our
days, that it seems desirable to give kind words a change among them.
There are vain words, and idle words, and hasty words, and spiteful
words, and silly words, and empty words, and profane words, and
boisterous words, and warlike words. Kind words also produce their own
image on men's souls. And a beautiful image it is. They smooth, and
quiet, and comfort the hearer. They shame him out of his sour, morose,
unkind feelings. We have not yet begun to use kind words in such
abundance as they ought to be used."

A writer in the New York Observer, speaking of the necessity of guarding
the tongue, says:--

"It is always well to avoid saying everything that is improper; but it
is especially so before children. And here parents, as well as others,
are often in fault. Children have as many ears as grown persons, and
they are generally more attentive to what is said before them. What they
hear, they are very apt to repeat; and, as they have no discretion, and
not sufficient knowledge of the world to disguise anything, it is
generally found that 'children and fools speak the truth.' See that
boy's eyes glisten while you are speaking of a neighbor in a language
you would not wish to have repeated. He does not fully understand what
you mean, but he will remember every word; and it will be strange if he
does not cause you to blush by the repetition.

"A gentleman was in the habit of calling at a neighbor's house, and the
lady had always expressed to him great pleasure from his calls. One day,
just after she had remarked to him, as usual, her happiness from his
visit, her little boy entered the room. The gentleman took him on his
knee, and asked, 'Are you not glad to see me, George?' 'No, sir,'
replied the boy. 'Why not, my little man?' he continued. 'Because mother
don't want you to come,' said George. 'Indeed! how do you know that,
George?' Here the mother became crimson, and looked daggers at her
little son. But he saw nothing, and therefore replied, 'Because, she
said yesterday, she wished that old bore would not call here again.'
That was enough. The gentleman's hat was soon in requisition, and he
left with the impression that 'great is the truth, and it will prevail.'

"Another little child looked sharply in the face of a visitor, and being
asked what she meant by it, replied, 'I wanted to see if you had a drop
in your eye; I heard mother say you had frequently.'

"A boy once asked one of his father's guests who it was that lived next
door to him, and when he heard his name, inquired if he was not a fool.
'No, my little friend,' replied the guest, 'he is not a fool, but a very
sensible man. But why did you ask that question?' 'Because,' replied the
boy, 'mother said the other day, that you were next door to a fool; and
I wanted to know who lived next door to you.'"

The best way to overcome the selfishness and rudeness you sometimes meet
with on public occasions, is, by great politeness and disinterestedness
on your part; overcome evil with good, and you will satisfy your own
conscience, and, perhaps, touch theirs. Contending for your rights stirs
up the selfish feelings in others; but a readiness to yield them awakens
generous sentiments, and leads to mutual accommodation. The more refined
you are, and the greater have been your advantages, the more polite and
considerate you should be toward others, the more ready to give place to
some poor, uneducated girl, who knows no better than to push herself
directly in your way.

Politeness is as necessary to a happy intercourse with the inhabitants
of the kitchen, as with those of the parlor; it lessens the pains of
service, promotes kind feelings on both sides, and checks unbecoming
familiarity; always thank them for what they do for you, and always ask
rather than command their services.

Of late years, the wearing of jewelry, in season and out of season, both
by matrons and unmarried females, has increased vastly. It is an
indication that the growing wealth of the people is not accompanied by a
corresponding refinement; but that the love of vulgar show, the low
pride of ostentation, takes the place of a pure and elevated taste. The
emulation with fashionable dames, now-a-days, so far from being, as with
the Spartan women, to excel each other in household virtues, is to wear
the largest diamonds. And, in this ambition, they forget fitness,
beauty, taste, everything but the mere vulgar desire to shine. To be
gracefully and elegantly attired, in short, is secondary to the desire
to be a sort of jeweler's walking show-card. We do not oppose the use of
diamonds and pearls altogether, as some persons might imagine from these
remarks. A few diamonds, judiciously worn, look well, on proper
occasions, on married women. But young girls rarely, or never, improve
their appearance by the use of these dazzling jewels; and, as a general
rule, the simpler the costume of a woman in her teens, the better. Women
are usually pretty, up to the age of twenty, at least. Consequently, at
this period of life, there are few whom an elaborate attire does not
injure; a simple dress, or a rose-bud in the hair, is frequently all
that is required; and more only spoils that combination of youthfulness,
grace, and modesty, which it should be the highest ambition of the girl
to attain; because, if she did but know it, it is her highest charm.
Instead of this, however, we see gay females, scarcely freed from the
nursery, wearing enormous jeweled ear-drops, or sporting on the finger,
a diamond ring as large as a sixpence. Sometimes, too, ladies pretending
to be well-bred, descend to receive a morning visitor of their own sex,
glittering like a jeweler's case, with costly gems. In all this, we
repeat, there is neither refinement nor elegance, but simply vulgar
ostentation. Female dress has ceased to be a means of beautifying the
person or displaying the wearer's taste, and has become instead, a mere
brag of the husband's or father's wealth.

A knowledge of domestic duties is beyond all price to a woman. Every
one of the sex ought to know how to sew, and knit, and mend, and cook,
and superintend a household. In every situation of life, high or low,
this sort of knowledge is of great advantage. There is no necessity that
the gaining of such information should interfere with intellectual
acquirement or even elegant accomplishment. A well-regulated mind can
find time to attend to all. When a girl is nine or ten years old, she
should be accustomed to take some regular share in household duties, and
to feel responsible for the manner in which her part is performed--such
as her own mending, washing the cups and putting them in place, cleaning
silver, or dusting and arranging the parlor. This should not be done
occasionally, and neglected whenever she finds it convenient--she should
consider it her department. When older than twelve, girls should begin
to take turns in superintending the household--making puddings, pies,
cakes, &c. To learn effectually, they should actually do these
themselves, and not stand by and see others do them. Many a husband has
been ruined for want of these domestic qualities in a wife--and many a
husband has been saved from ruin by his wife being able to manage well
the household concerns.

It is a mark, not only of ill-breeding, but of positive want of feeling
and judgment, to speak disparagingly of a physician to one of his
patients. Many persons, visiting an invalid friend, will exclaim loudly
against the treatment pursued, recommend a different doctor, and add to
the sufferings of the patient by their injudicious remarks upon the
medicines or practice used.

It is too much the fashion, in conversation, to use exaggerated
expressions which are opposed to _truth_, without the person employing
them being aware of it, from the mere force of habit. Why need we say
splendid for pretty, magnificent for handsome, horrid for unpleasant,
immense for large, thousands, or myriads, for any number more than two?
This practice is pernicious, for the effect is to deprive the person who
is guilty of it, from being believed, when she is in earnest. No one can
trust the testimony of an individual who, in common conversation, is
indifferent to the import, and regardless of the value of words.

Politeness is very essential to the right transaction of that great
business of woman's life, _shopping_. The variety afforded by the shops
of a city renders people difficult to please; and the latitude they take
in examining and asking the price of goods, which they have no thought
of buying, is so trying to the patience of those who attend upon them,
that nothing but the most perfect courtesy of demeanor can reconcile
them to it. Some persons behave, in shopping, as if no one had any
rights, or any feelings, but the purchasers; as if the sellers of goods
were mere automatons, put behind the counter to do their bidding; they
keep them waiting, whilst they talk of other things, with a friend; they
call for various goods, ask the price, and try to cheapen them, without
any real intention of buying. A lady who wants decision of character,
after hesitating and debating, till the poor trader's patience is almost
exhausted, will beg him to send the article to her house, for her to
examine it there; and, after giving him all this trouble, she will
refuse to purchase it, without any scruple or apology. Some think they
have a right to exchange articles at the place where they were bought;
whereas that privilege should be asked as a favor, only by a good
customer,--and then but rarely.




RECEIPTS.


FOR THE COMPLEXION.

COLD CREAM, 1.--Take 2½ ounces of sweet oil of almonds, 3 drachms of
white wax, and the same of spermaceti, 2½ ounces of rose-water, 1 drachm
of oil of bergamot, and 15 drops each of oil of lavender, and otto of
roses. Melt the wax and spermaceti in the oil of almonds, by placing
them together in a jar, which should be plunged into boiling water. Heat
a mortar (which should, if possible, be _marble_) by pouring boiling
water into it, and letting it remain there until the mortar is uniformly
heated; the water is to be poured away, and the mortar dried well. Pour
the melted wax and spermaceti into the warm mortar, and add rose-water
gradually, while the mixture is constantly stirred or whisked with an
egg-whisp, until the whole is cold, and, when nearly finished, add the
oils and otto of roses.

In the absence of a mortar, a basin plunged into another containing
boiling water will answer the purpose.

COLD CREAM, 2.--Take 10 drachms of spermaceti, 4 drachms of white wax,
half a pound of prepared lard, 15 grains of subcarbonate of potash, 4
ounces of rose-water, 2 ounces of spirits of wine, and ten drops of otto
of roses.

Proceed as above. Some persons prefer orange-flower-water instead of
rose-water, in which case use the same proportions.

Cold cream is a useful local application to hard and dry parts of the
skin, to abrasions and cracks. When spread thickly upon rag, it is an
excellent application to blistered surfaces or burns, or may be used to
protect exposed parts from the influence of the sun.

GRANULATED COLD CREAM.--Take white wax and spermaceti, of each one
ounce; almond oil 3 ounces, otto of rose, as much as you please.
Dissolve the wax and spermaceti in the almond oil, by means of heat, and
when a little cool, pour the mixture into a large wedgwood mortar
previously warmed, and containing about a pint of warm water. Stir
briskly until the cream is well divided, add the otto, and _suddenly_
pour the whole into a clean vessel containing 8 or 12 pints of _cold
water_. Separate the cream by straining through muslin, and shake out as
much water as possible.

WHITE CAMPHORATED OINTMENT, 1.--Take 3 ounces 2 drachms of powdered
carbonate of lead (cerussa), 45 grains of powdered camphor. Mix, and
then stir into 5 ounces of melted lard.

This is applied to burns and contusions with very good effect, and is
much used in Austria. The surface must not be abraded when it is
applied.

WHITE CAMPHORATED OINTMENT, 2.--Take 4 ounces of olive oil, 1 ounce of
white wax, 22 grains of camphor, and 6 drachms of spermaceti. Melt the
wax and spermaceti with the oil, and when they have cooled rub the
ointment with the camphor, dissolved in a little oil. Sometimes the
white wax is omitted, and lard substituted for it.

It is useful in chaps, fissures, abrasions, and roughness of the skin.

PITCH POMADE, 1.--Take 1 drachm of pitch, and 1 ounce of lard. Mix well,
and apply twice a day to the affected parts.

This is used for ringworm, and scald head.

TO SOFTEN THE SKIN, AND IMPROVE THE COMPLEXION.--If flowers of sulphur
be mixed in a little milk, and, after standing an hour or two, the milk
(without disturbing the sulphur) be rubbed into the skin, it will keep
it soft, and make the complexion clear. It is to be used before washing.

TO REMOVE BLACK STAINS FROM THE SKIN.--Ladies that wear mourning in warm
weather are much incommoded by the blackness it leaves on the arms and
neck, and which cannot easily be removed, even by soap and warm water.
To have a remedy always at hand, keep, in the drawer of your wash-stand,
a box, containing a mixture in equal portions of cream of tartar, and
oxalic acid (POISON). Get, at a druggist's, half an ounce of each of
these articles, and have them mixed and pounded together in a mortar.
Put some of this mixture into a cup that has a cover, and if,
afterwards, it becomes hard, you may keep it slightly moistened with
water. See that it is always closely covered. To use it, wet the black
stains on your skin with the corner of a towel, dipped in water (warm
water is best, but is not always at hand). Then, with your finger, rub
on a little of the mixture. Then _immediately_ wash it off with water,
and afterwards with soap and water, and the black stains will be visible
no longer. This mixture will also remove ink, and all other stains from
the fingers, and from _white_ clothes. It is more speedy in its effects
if applied with warm water. No family should be without it, but care
must be taken to keep it out of the way of young children, as, if
swallowed, it is poisonous.


PASTES.

ALMOND.--Take 1 ounce of bitter almonds, blanch and pound them to a fine
powder, then add 1 ounce of barley flour, and make it into a smooth
paste by the addition of a little honey. When this paste is laid over
the skin, particularly where there are freckles, it makes it smooth and
soft.

PALATINE.--Take 8 ounces of soft-soap, of olive oil, and spirits of
wine, each 4 ounces, 1½ ounce of lemon-juice, sufficient silver-sand to
form into a thick paste, and any perfume that is grateful to the person.
Boil the oil and soap together in a pipkin, and then gradually stir in
the sand and lemon-juice. When nearly cool add the spirit of wine, and
lastly the perfume. Make into a paste with the hands, and place in jars
or pots for use.

This paste is used instead of soap, and is a valuable addition to the
toilette, as it preserves the skin from chapping, and renders it smooth
and soft.

AMERICAN COSMETIC POWDER.--Calcined magnesia applied the same as
ordinary toilette powders, by means of a swan's-down ball, usually
called a "puff."

MALOINE.--Take 4 ounces of powdered marsh-mallow roots, 2 ounces of
powdered white starch, 3 drachms of powdered orris-root, and 20 drops of
essence of jasmine. Mix well, and sift through fine muslin.

This is one of the most agreeable and elegant cosmetics yet known for
softening and whitening the skin, preserving it from chapping, and being
so simple that it may be applied to the most delicate or irritable skin.

This receipt has never before been published, and we know that only six
bottles of it have been made.

OXIDE OF ZINC is sprinkled into chaps and fissures to promote their
cure.

YAOULTA.--Take 1 ounce of white starch, powdered and sifted, ½ a drachm
of rose pink, 10 drops of essence of jasmine, and 2 drops of otto of
roses. Mix and keep in a fine muslin bag.

This exquisite powder is to be dusted over the face, and, being
perfectly harmless, may be used as often as necessity requires. It also
imparts a delicate rosy tinge to the skin preferable to rouge.

CRÈME DE L'ENCLOS.--Take 4 ounces of milk, 1 ounce of lemon-juice, and 2
drachms of spirit of wine. Simmer over a slow fire, and then bring it to
the boil, skim off the scum, and when cold apply it to the skin.

It is much used by some persons to remove freckles and sun-burnings.


WASHES AND LOTIONS.

MILK OF ROSES, 1.--Take 2 ounces of blanched almonds; 12 ounces of
rose-water; white soft-soap, or Windsor soap; white wax; and oil of
almonds, of each 2 drachms; rectified spirit, 3 ounces; oil of bergamot,
1 drachm; oil of lavender, 15 drops; otto of roses, 8 drops. Beat the
almonds well, and then add the rose-water gradually so as to form an
emulsion, mix the soap, white wax, and oil together, by placing them in
a covered jar upon the edge of the fire-place, then rub this mixture in
a mortar with the emulsion. Strain the whole through very fine muslin,
and add the essential oils, previously mixed with the spirit.

This is an excellent wash for "sunburns," freckles, or for cooling the
face and neck, or any part of the skin to which it is applied.

MILK OF ROSES, 2.--This is not quite so expensive a receipt as the last;
and, at the same time is not so good.

Take 1 ounce of Jordan almonds; 5 ounces of distilled rose-water; 1
ounce of spirit of wine; ½ a drachm of Venetian soap, and 2 drops of
otto of roses. Beat the almonds (previously blanched and well dried with
a cloth) in a mortar, until they become a complete paste, then beat the
soap and mix with the almonds, and afterwards add the rose-water and
spirit. Strain through a very fine muslin or linen, and add the otto of
roses.

The common milk of roses sold in the shops, frequently contains salt of
tartar, or pearlash, combined with olive oil and rose-water, and
therefore it is better to make it yourself to ensure it being good.

FRENCH MILK OF ROSES.--Mix 2½ pints of rose-water with ½ a pint of
rosemary-water, then add tincture of storax and tincture of benzoin, of
each 2 ounces; and _esprit de rose_, ½ an ounce. This is a useful wash
for freckles.

GERMAN MILK OF ROSES.--Take of rose-water and milk of almonds, each 3
ounces; water 8 ounces; rosemary-water 2 ounces; and spirit of lavender
½ an ounce. Mix well, and then add ½ an ounce of sugar of lead.

This is a dangerous form to leave about where there are children, and
should never be applied when there are any abrasions, or chaps on the
surface.

MILK OF ALMONDS.--Blanch 4 ounces of Jordan almonds, dry them with a
towel, and then pound them in a mortar; add 2 drachms of white or curd
soap, and rub it up with the almonds for about ten minutes or rather
more, gradually adding one quart of rose-water, until the whole is well
mixed, then strain through a fine piece of muslin, and bottle for use.

This is an excellent remedy for freckles and sunburns, and may be used
as a general cosmetic, being applied to the skin after washing by means
of the corner of a soft towel.

ANTI-FRECKLE LOTION, 1.--Take tincture of benzoin, 2 ounces; tincture of
tolu, 1 ounce; oil of rosemary, ½ a drachm. Mix well and bottle. When
required to be used, add a teaspoonful of the mixture to about a
wine-glassful of water, and apply the lotion to the face or hands, &c.,
night and morning, carefully rubbing it in with a soft towel.

ANTI-FRECKLE LOTION, 2.--Take 1 ounce of rectified spirit of wine; 1
drachm of hydrochloric acid (spirit of salt); and 7 ounces of water. Mix
the acid gradually with the water, and then add the spirit of wine;
apply by means of a camel's-hair brush, or a piece of flannel.

GOWLAND'S LOTION.--Take 1½ grains of bichloride of mercury, and 1 ounce
of emulsion of bitter almonds; mix well. Be careful of the bichloride of
mercury, because it is a poison.

This is one of the best cosmetics for imparting a delicate appearance
and softness to the skin, and is a useful lotion in acne, ringworm, hard
and dry skin, and sun-blisterings.

COLD CREAM.--Sweet almond oil, 7 lbs. by weight, white wax, ¾ lb.,
spermaceti, ¾ lb., clarified mutton suet, 1 lb., rose-water, 7 pints,
spirits of wine, 1 pint. Directions to mix the above:--Place the oil,
wax, spermaceti, and suet in a large jar; cover it over tightly, then
place it in a saucepan of boiling water, (having previously placed two
or more pieces of fire-wood at the bottom of the saucepan, to allow the
water to get underneath the jar, and to prevent its breaking) keep the
water boiling round the jar till all the ingredients are dissolved; take
it out of the water, and pour it into a large pan previously warmed and
capable of holding 21 pints; then, with a wooden spatula, stir in the
rose-water, cold, as quickly as possible, (dividing it into three or
four parts, at most,) the stirring in of which should not occupy above
five minutes, as after a certain heat the water will not mix. When all
the water is in, stir unremittingly for thirty minutes longer, to
prevent its separating, then add the spirits of wine, and the scent, and
it is finished. Keep it in a cold place, in a white glazed jar, and do
not cut it with a _steel_ knife, as it causes blackness at the parts of
contact. Scent with otto of roses and essential oil of bergamot to
fancy. For smaller quantities, make ounces instead of pounds.

PALM SOAP.--I make it in the following manner:--Cut thin two pounds of
yellow soap into a double saucepan, occasionally stirring it till it is
melted, which will be in a few minutes if the water is kept boiling
around it; then add quarter of a pound of palm oil, quarter of a pound
of honey, three pennyworth of true oil of cinnamon; let all boil
together another six or eight minutes; pour out and stand it by till
next day; it is then fit for immediate use. If made as these directions
it will be found to be a very superior soap.

CURE FOR CHAPPED HANDS.--Take 3 drachms of gum camphor, 3 drachms of
white beeswax, 3 drachms of spermaceti, 2 ounces of olive oil,--put them
together in a cup upon the stove, where they will melt slowly and form a
white ointment in a few minutes. If the hands be affected, anoint them
on going to bed, and put on a pair of gloves. A day or two will suffice
to heal them.

TO WHITEN THE NAILS.--Diluted sulphuric acid, 2 drachms; tincture of
myrrh, 1 drachm; spring water, 4 ounces. Mix. First cleanse with white
soap, and then dip the fingers into the mixture.

TO WHITEN THE HANDS.--Take a wine-glassful of eau de Cologne, and
another of lemon-juice; then scrape two cakes of brown Windsor soap to a
powder, and mix well in a mould. When hard, it will be an excellent soap
for whitening the hands.


FOR THE TEETH.

TO REMOVE TARTAR FROM THE TEETH.--1st. The use of the tooth-brush night
and morning, and, at least, rinsing the mouth after every meal at which
animal food is taken. 2nd. Once daily run the brush lightly two or three
times over soap, then dip it in salt, and with it clean the teeth,
working the brush up and down rather than--or as well as--backwards and
forwards. This is a cheap, safe, and effectual dentrifice. 3rd. Eat
freely of common cress, the sort used with mustard, under the name of
small salad; it must be eaten with salt only. If thus used two or three
days in succession it will effectually loosen tartar, even of long
standing. The same effect is produced, though perhaps not in an equal
degree, by eating strawberries and raspberries, especially the former. A
leaf of common green sage rubbed on the teeth is useful both in
cleansing and polishing, and probably many other common vegetable
productions also.

CARE OF THE TEETH.--The water with which the teeth are cleansed should
be what is called lukewarm. They should be well but gently brushed both
night and morning; the brush should be neither too hard nor too soft.
The best tooth-powders are made from cuttle-fish, prepared chalk, and
orris-root commingled together in equal quantities.

SIMPLE MEANS OF REMOVING TARTAR FROM THE TEETH.--In these summer months,
tartar may be effectually removed from the teeth, by partaking daily of
strawberries.

TOOTH POWDER.--Powdered orris-root, ½ an ounce; powdered charcoal, 2
ounces, powdered Peruvian bark, 1 ounce; prepared chalk, ½ an ounce; oil
of bergamot, or lavender, 20 drops. These ingredients must be well
worked up in a mortar, until thoroughly incorporated. This celebrated
tooth-powder possesses three essential virtues, giving an odorous
breath, cleansing and purifying the gums, and preserving the enamel; the
last rarely found in popular tooth-powders.

TOOTH-POWDER.--One of the best tooth-powders that can be used may be
made by mixing together 1½ ounces prepared chalk, ½ ounce powder of
bark, and ¼ ounce of camphor.

A CHEAP BUT GOOD TOOTH-POWDER.--Cut a slice of bread as thick as may be,
into squares, and burn in the fire until it becomes charcoal, after
which pound in a mortar, and sift through a fine muslin; it is then
ready for use.

CHEAP AND INVALUABLE DENTIFRICE.--Dissolve 2 ounces of borax in three
pints of water; before quite cold, add thereto one tea-spoonful of
tincture of myrh, and one table-spoonful of spirits of camphor; bottle
the mixture for use. One wine-glass of the solution, added to half a
pint of tepid water, is sufficient for each application. This solution,
applied daily, preserves and beautifies the teeth, extirpates all
tartarous adhesion, produces a pearl-like whiteness, arrests decay, and
induces a healthy action in the gums.

INVALUABLE DENTIFRICE.--Dissolve two ounces of borax in three pints of
boiling water; before quite cold, add one tea-spoonful of tincture of
myrrh, and one table-spoonful of spirits of camphor; bottle the mixture
for use. One wine-glassful of this solution, added to half a pint of
tepid water, is sufficient for each application.


FOR THE HAIR.

LOSS OF HAIR.--The most simple remedy for loss of hair, is friction to
the scalp of the head, using for the purpose an old tooth-brush, or one
of which the bristles have been softened by soaking in boiling water.
The shape of the instrument adapts it to be inserted readily and
effectually between the hair, where it should be rubbed backwards and
forwards over the space of an inch or so at a time. In addition to the
friction, which should be used once or twice a day, the head may be
showered once a day with cold water, carefully drying it with soft,
spongy towels.

POMATUM.--Take of white mutton suet 4 pounds, well boiled in hot water,
(3 quarts,) and washed to free it from salt. Melt the suet, when dried,
with 1½ pounds of fresh lard, and 2 pounds of yellow wax. Pour into an
earthen vessel, and stir till it is cold; then beat into it 30 drops of
oil of cloves, or any other essential oil whose scent you prefer. If
this kind of pomatum is too hard, use less wax.

At times numbers of loose hairs come away in the brushing or combing.
Such cases as these will generally be found remedial. Wilson recommends
women with short hair to dip their heads into cold water every morning,
and afterwards apply the brush until a glow of warmth is felt all over
the scalp. Those who have long hair are to brush it till the skin
beneath becomes red, when a lotion is to be applied, as here specified.

  Eau de Cologne                      2 oz.
  Tincture of Cantharides             ½ oz.
  Oil of Nutmegs                      ½ drachm.
  Oil of Lavender                     10 drops.

To be well mixed together.

Another is composed of:--

  Mezereon bark in small pieces             1 oz.
  Horse-Radish root in small pieces         1 oz.
  Boiling distilled Vinegar                 ½ pint.

Let this infusion stand for a week, and then strain through muslin for
use.

If irritating to the skin, these lotions can be made weaker, or less
frequently applied than might otherwise be necessary. Either of them, or
distilled vinegar alone, may be rubbed into a bald patch with a
tooth-brush. The same lotions may also be used if the hair is disposed
to become gray too early; as they invigorate the apparatus situated
beneath the skin, and enable it to take up coloring matter. Dyeing of
the hair is a practice which ought never to be resorted to. Those who
are unwilling or unable to discontinue the practice of applying some
kind of dressing to the hair, should, at least, content themselves with
a simple, yet good material. The best olive oil is most suitable for the
purpose, scented with otto of roses or bergamot; the latter, as many
persons know, is the essence of a species of mint. The same scents may
also be used for pomatum, which should be made of perfectly pure lard,
or marrow.

HAIR OILS, &c.--When used moderately, oils, ointments, &c., tend to
strengthen the hair, especially when it is naturally dry. When used in
excess, however, they clog the pores, prevent the escape of the natural
secretions, and cause the hair to wither and fall off. The varieties of
"oils," "Greases," "ointments," rivaling each-other in their high
sounding pretensions, which are daily imposed upon public credulity, are
interminable. We add one or two of the most simple.

FOR THICKENING THE HAIR.--To one ounce of Palma Christi oil, add a
sufficient quantity of bergamot or lavender to scent it. Apply it to the
parts where it is most needed, brushing it well into the hair.

AN OINTMENT FOR THE HAIR.--Mix two ounces of bear's grease, half an
ounce of honey, one drachm of laudanum, three drachms of the powder of
southernwood, three drachms of the balsam of Peru, one and a half
drachms of the ashes of the roots of bulrushes, and a small quantity of
the oil of sweet almonds.

MACASSAR OIL.--It is said to be compounded of the following
ingredients:--To three quarts of common oil, add half-a-pint of spirits
of wine, three ounces of cinnamon powder, and two ounces of bergamot;
heat the whole in a large pipkin. On removing from the fire, add three
or four small pieces of alkanet root, and keep the vessel closely
covered for several hours. When cool, it may be filtered through a
funnel lined with filtering paper.

Whether oils are used or not, the hair ought night and morning to be
carefully and elaborately brushed. This is one of the best preservatives
of its beauty.

The following is recommended as an excellent Hair Oil:--Boil together
half-a-pint of port wine, one pint and a-half of sweet oil, and
half-a-pound of green southernwood. Strain the mixture through a linen
rag several times; adding, at the last operation, two ounces of bear's
grease. If fresh southernwood is added each time it passes through the
linen, the composition will be improved.

POMADE VICTORIA.--This highly-praised and excellent pomade is made in
the following way--and if so made, will be found to give a beautiful
gloss and softness to the hair:--Quarter of a-pound of honey and
half-an-ounce of bees' wax simmered together for a few minutes and then
strain. Add of oil of almonds, lavender, and thyme, half-a-drachm each.
Be sure to continue stirring till quite cold, or the honey and wax will
separate.

LEMON POMATUM.--Best lard, two pounds; suet, half-a-pound; dissolve with
a gentle heat, and mix them well together. Then add four ounces of
orange-flower water, and four ounces of rose-water, and mix them well
together before adding, or they will separate. Having done this, add a
quarter of an ounce of essence of lemon; half-a-drachm of musk, and
half-a-drachm of oil of thyme.

TO COLOR POMATUM.--Yellow, by palm oil or annatto; red, by alkanet root;
and green, by guaiacum, or the green leaves of parsley.

BANDOLINE FOR THE HAIR, (A FRENCH RECEIPT).--To one quart of water put ½
ounce of quince pips, boil it nearly an hour, stirring it well, strain
it through a fine muslin, let it stand twenty-four hours, and then add
fourteen drops of the essential oil of almonds. A dessert-spoonful of
brandy may be added, if required to keep a long time.

BANDOLINE FOR THE HAIR.--Take of castor oil, two ounces; spermaceti,
one drachm; oil of bergamot, one drachm; mix with heat and strain; then
beat in six drops otto of roses. If wished colored, add half-a-drachm of
annatto.

ANOTHER.--I furnish you with an excellent form of Bandoline, much more
quickly made than others. Have a small packet of powdered gum dragon by
you, and when you require any fresh bandoline, take a tea-spoonful of
the powder, and pour enough of boiling water on it to make a small
bottle full. Scent with otto of roses.

CURLING FLUID.--Place two pounds of common soap, cut small, into three
pints of spirits of wine, with eight ounces of potash, and melt the
whole, stirring it with a clean piece of wood. Add, on cooling, essence
of amber, vanilla, and neroli, of each quarter of an ounce. The best
method of keeping _ringlets_ in curl, is the occasional application of
the yolk of an egg, and the hair, afterwards, well washed in lukewarm
water. Apply the egg with a tooth or hair-brush.


FOR THE LIPS.

VERY EXCELLENT LIP-SALVE.--Take four ounces of butter, fresh from the
churn, cut it small, put it into a jar, cover it with good rose-water,
and let it remain for four or five days; then drain it well, and put it
into a small and very clean saucepan, with one ounce of spermaceti, and
one of yellow beeswax sliced thin, a quarter of an ounce of bruised
alkanet root, two drachms of gum benzoin, and one of storax, beaten to
powder, half an ounce of loaf sugar, and the strained juice of a
moderate sized lemon. Simmer these gently, keeping them stirred all the
time, until the mixture looks very clear, and sends forth a fine
aromatic odour; then strain it through a thin doubled muslin, and stir
to it from twelve to twenty drops of essential oil of roses, and pour it
into small gallipots, from which it can easily be turned out when cold,
and then be rubbed against the lips, which is the most pleasant way of
using it, as it is much firmer than common lip-salve, and will be found
more healing and infinitely more agreeable. When butter cannot be had
direct from the churn, any which is quite fresh may be substituted for
it, after the salt has been well washed and soaked out of it, by working
it with a strong spoon in cold water, in which it should remain for a
couple of days or more, the water being frequently changed during the
time.

ROSE LIP-SALVE.--8 ounces sweet almond oil, 4 ounces prepared mutton
suet, 1½ ounces white wax, 2 ounces spermaceti, 20 drops otto; steep a
small quantity of alkanet root in the oil, and strain before using. Melt
the suet, wax, and spermaceti together, then add the coloric oil and
otto.

LIP-SALVES.--A good lip-salve may be made as follows:--Take an ounce of
the oil of sweet almonds, cold drawn; a drachm of fresh mutton suet; and
a little bruised alkanet root: and simmer the whole together in an
earthen pipkin. Instead of the oil of sweet almonds you may use oil of
Jasmin, or oil of any other flower, if you intend the lip-salve to have
a fragrant odour.--2. Take a pound of fresh butter; a quarter of a pound
of beeswax; four or five ounces of cleansed black grapes, and about an
ounce of bruised alkanet root. Simmer them together over a slow fire
till the wax is wholly dissolved, and the mixture becomes of a bright
red color; strain, and put it by for use. 3. Oil of almonds, spermaceti,
white wax, and white sugar-candy, equal parts, form a good white
lip-salve.

SUPERIOR LIP-SALVE.--White wax, two and a half ounces; spermaceti, three
quarters of an ounce; oil of almonds, four ounces. Mix well together,
and apply a little to the lips at night.

ANOTHER.--A desert spoonful of salad oil in a saucer, hold it over a
candle, and drop melted wax over it till the oil is thinly covered, when
they are incorporated, pour it into boxes.--(Wax taper will do.)


FOR CORNS.

CURE FOR CORNS.--Place the feet for half an hour, two or three nights
successively, in a pretty strong solution of common soda. The alkali
dissolves the indurated cuticle, and the corn falls out spontaneously,
leaving a small excavation, which soon fills up.

TO REMOVE CORNS.--Get four ounces of white diachylon plaster, four
ounces of shoemaker's wax, and sixty drops of muriatic acid or spirits
of salt. Boil them for a few minutes in an earthen pipkin, and when
cold, roll the mass between the hands and apply a little on a piece of
white leather.

A CERTAIN CURE FOR SOFT CORNS.--Dip a piece of soft linen rag in
turpentine, and wrap it round the toe on which the soft corn is, night
and morning; in a few days the corn will disappear; but the relief is
instantaneous.


PERFUMES.

TO MAKE EAU DE COLOGNE.--Rectified spirits of wine, four pints; oil of
bergamot, one ounce; oil of lemon, half an ounce; oil of rosemary, half
a drachm; oil of Neroli, three quarters of a drachm; oil of English
lavender, one drachm; oil of oranges, one drachm. Mix well and then
filter. If these proportions are too large, smaller ones may be used.

EAU DE COLOGNE.--Oil of neroli, citron, bergamot, orange, and rosemary,
of each twelve drops; cardamom seeds, one drachm; spirits of wine, one
pint. Let it stand for a week.

LAVENDER WATER.--Oil of lavender, 2 drachms; oil of bergamot, ½ drachm;
essence of musk, 1 drachm; spirits of wine, 13 ounces; water, 5 ounces.
Let it stand for a week.


FOR KEEPING THE WARDROBE IN ORDER.

TO CLEAN KID GLOVES.--Make a strong lather with curd soap and warm
water, in which steep a small piece of new flannel. Place the glove on a
flat, clean, and unyielding surface--such as the bottom of a dish, and
having thoroughly soaped the flannel (when squeezed from the lather),
rub the kid till all dirt be removed, cleaning and resoaping the flannel
from time to time. Care must be taken to omit no part of the glove, by
turning the fingers, &c. The gloves must be dried in the sun, or before
a moderate fire, and will present the appearance of old parchment. When
quite dry, they must be gradually "pulled out," and will look new.

ANOTHER.--First see that your hands are clean, then put on the gloves
and wash them, as though you were washing your hands, in a basin of
spirits of turpentine, until quite clean; then hang them up in a warm
place, or where there is a good current of air, which will carry off all
smell of the turpentine. This method was brought from Paris, and
thousands of dollars have been made by it.

TO CLEAN COLORED KID GLOVES.--Have ready on a table a clean towel,
folded three or four times, a saucer of new milk, and another saucer
with a piece of brown soap. Take one glove at a time, and spread it
smoothly on the folded towel. Then dip in the milk a piece of clean
flannel, rub it on the soap till you get off a tolerable quantity, and
then, with the wet flannel, commence rubbing the glove. Begin at the
wrist, and rub lengthways towards the end of the fingers, holding the
glove firmly in your right-hand. Continue this process until the glove
is well cleaned all over with the milk and soap. When done, spread them
out, and pin them on a line to dry gradually. When nearly dry, pull them
out evenly, the crossway of the leather. When quite dry, stretch them on
your hands. White kid gloves may also be washed in this manner, provided
they have never been cleaned with India-rubber.

TO CLEAN WHITE OR COLORED KID GLOVES.--Put the glove on your hand, then
take a small piece of flannel, dip it in camphene, and well, but gently,
rub it over the glove, _taking care not to make it too wet_, when the
dirt is removed, dip the flannel (or another piece if that is become too
dirty) into pipe-clay and rub it over the glove; take it off, and hang
it up in a room to dry, and in a day or two very little smell will
remain; and if done carefully they will be almost as good as new. In
colored ones, if yellow, use gamboge after the pipe-clay, and for other
colors match it in dry paint.

TO CLEAN WHITE KID GLOVES.--Stretch the gloves on a clean board, and rub
all the soiled or grease-spots with cream of tartar or magnesia. Let
them rest an hour. Then have ready a mixture of alum and Fuller's earth
(both powdered), and rub it all over the gloves with a brush (a clean
tooth-brush or something similar), and let them rest for an hour or two.
Then sweep it all off, and go over them with a flannel dipped in a
mixture of bran and finely powdered whiting. Let them rest another hour;
then brush off the powder, and you will find them clean.

TO CLEAN LIGHT KID GLOVES.--Put on one glove, and having made a strong
lather with common brown soap, apply it with a shaving brush, wiping it
off immediately with a clean towel, then blow into the glove, and leave
it to dry.

AN EXCELLENT PASTE FOR GLOVES.--Liquor of ammonia half an ounce,
chloride of potash ten ounces, curd soap one pound, water half a pint;
dissolve the soap in the water, with a gentle heat, then as the mixture
cools, stir in the other ingredients. Use it, by rubbing it over the
gloves until the dirt is removed.

TO WASH THREAD LACE.--Rip off the lace, carefully pick out the loose
bits of thread, and roll the lace very smoothly and securely round a
clean black bottle, previously covered with old white linen, sewed
tightly on. Tack each end of the lace with a needle and thread, to keep
it smooth; and be careful in wrapping not to crumple or fold in any of
the scallops or pearlings. After it is on the bottle, take some of the
_best_ sweet oil and with a clean sponge wet the lace thoroughly to the
inmost folds. Have ready in a wash-kettle, a strong _cold_ lather of
clear water and white Castile soap. Fill the bottle with cold water, to
prevent its bursting, cork it well, and stand it upright in the suds,
with a string round the neck secured to the ears or handle of the
kettle, to prevent its knocking about and breaking while over the fire.
Let it boil in the suds for an hour or more, till the lace is clean and
white all through. Drain off the suds, and dry it on the bottle in the
sun. When dry, remove the lace from the bottle and roll it round a wide
ribbon-block; or lay it in long folds, place it within a sheet of
smooth, white, paper, and press it in a large book for a few days.

TO WASH A WHITE LACE VEIL.--Put the veil into a strong lather of white
soap and very clear water, and let it simmer slowly for a quarter of an
hour. Take it out and squeeze it well, but be sure not to rub it. Rinse
it in two cold waters, with a drop or two of liquid blue in the last.
Have ready some very clear and weak gum-arabic water, or some thin
starch, or rice-water. Pass the veil through it, and clear it by
clapping. Then stretch it out even, and pin it to dry on a linen cloth,
making the edge as straight as possible, opening out all the scallops,
and fastening each with pins. When dry, lay a piece of thin muslin
smoothly over it, and iron it on the wrong side.

TO WASH A BLACK LACE VEIL.--Mix bullock's gall with sufficient hot water
to make it as warm as you can bear your hand in. Then pass the veil
through it. It must be squeezed, and not rubbed. It will be well to
perfume the gall with a little musk. Next rinse the veil through two
cold waters, tinging the last with indigo. Then dry it. Have ready in a
pan some stiffening made by pouring boiling water on a very small piece
of glue. Pat the veil into it, squeeze it out, stretch it, and clap it.
Afterwards pin it out to dry on a linen cloth, making it very straight
and even, and taking care to open and pin the edge very nicely. When
dry, iron it on the wrong side, having laid a linen cloth over the
ironing-blanket. Any article of black lace may be washed in this manner.

TO CLEAN WHITE SATIN AND FLOWERED SILKS.--1. Mix sifted stale bread
crumbs with powder blue, and rub it thoroughly all over, then shake it
well, and dust it with clean, soft cloths. Afterwards, where there are
any gold or silver flowers, take a piece of crimson ingrain velvet, rub
the flowers with it, which will restore them to their original lustre.
2. Pass them through a solution of fine hard soap, at a hand heat,
drawing them through the hand. Rinse in lukewarm water, dry and finish
by pinning out. Brush the flossy or bright side with a clean
clothes-brush, the way of the nap. Finish them by dipping a sponge into
a size, made by boiling isinglass in water, and rub the wrong side.
Rinse out a second time, and brush, and dry near a fire, or in a warm
room. Silks may be treated in the same way, but not brushed.

TO CLEAN WHITE SILK.--Dissolve some of the best curd soap in boiling
water, and when the solution is as hot as the hand can bear, pass the
silk through it thoroughly, handling it gently, not to injure the
texture. If there are any spots, these may be rubbed carefully until
they disappear. The article must then be rinsed in lukewarm water.

TO IRON SILK.--Silk cannot be ironed smoothly, so as to press out all
the creases, without first sprinkling it with water, and rolling it up
tightly in a towel, letting it rest for an hour or two. If the iron is
in the least too hot, it will injure the color, and it should first be
tried on an old piece of the same silk.

TO WASH SILK.--Half a pint of gin, four ounces of soft soap, and two
ounces of honey, well shaken; then rub the silk, with a sponge (wetted
with the above mixture), upon a table, and wash through two waters, in
which first put two or three spoonfuls of ox gall, which will brighten
the colors, and prevent their running. The silks should not be wrung,
but well shaken and hung up smoothly to dry, and mangled while damp. The
writer has had _green_ silk dresses washed by this receipt, and they
have looked as well as new.

TO RENOVATE BLACK SILK.--Slice some uncooked potatoes, pour boiling
water on them; when cold sponge the right side of the silk with it, and
iron on the wrong.

TO KEEP SILK.--Silk articles should not be kept folded in white paper,
as the chloride of lime used in bleaching the paper will probably impair
the color of the silk. Brown or blue paper is better--the yellowish
smooth India paper is best of all. Silk intended for a dress should not
be kept in the house long before it is made up, as lying in the folds
will have a tendency to impair its durability by causing it to cut or
split, particularly if the silk has been thickened by gum. We knew an
instance of a very elegant and costly thread-lace veil being found, on
its arrival from France, cut into squares (and therefore destroyed) by
being folded over a pasteboard card. A white satin dress should be
pinned up in blue paper, with coarse brown paper outside, sewed together
at the edges.

TO RESTORE VELVET.--When velvet gets plushed from pressure, holding the
reverse side over a basin of boiling water will raise the pile, and
perhaps it may also succeed in the case of wet from rain.

TO IRON VELVET.--Having ripped the velvet apart, damp each piece
separately, and holding it tightly in both hands, stretch it before the
fire, the wrong side of the velvet being towards the fire. This will
remove the creases, and give the surface of the material a fresh and new
appearance. Velvet cannot be ironed on a table, for, when spread out on
a hard substance, the iron will not go smoothly over the pile.

TO CLEAN ERMINE AND MINIVAR FUR.--Take a piece of soft flannel, and rub
the fur well with it (but remember that the rubbing must be always
against the grain); then rub the fur with common flour until clean.
Shake it well, and rub again with the flannel till all the flour is out
of it. I have had a Minivar boa for four years. It has never been
cleaned with anything but flour, and is not in the least injured by the
rubbing. It was a school companion who told me that her aunt (a Russian
lady) always cleaned her white furs with flour, and that they looked
quite beautiful. It has one advantage--the lining does not require to be
taken out, and it only requires a little trouble. Ermine takes longer
than Minivar. The latter is very easily done.

TO PERFUME LINEN.--Rose-leaves dried in the shade, or at about four feet
from a stove, one pound; cloves, carraway-seeds, and allspice, of each
one ounce; pound in a mortar, or grind in a mill; dried salt, a quarter
of a pound; mix all these together, and put the compound into little
bags.

TO RESTORE SCORCHED LINEN.--Take two onions, peel and slice them, and
extract the juice by squeezing or pounding. Then cut up half an ounce of
white soap, and two ounces of fuller's earth; mix with them the onion
juice, and half a pint of vinegar. Boil this composition well, and
spread it, when cool, over the scorched part of the linen, leaving it to
dry thereon. Afterwards wash out the linen.

TO WHITEN LINEN THAT HAS TURNED YELLOW.--Cut up a pound of fine white
soap into a gallon of milk, and hang it over the fire in a wash-kettle.
When the soap has entirely melted, put in the linen, and boil it half an
hour. Then take it out; have ready a lather of soap and warm water; wash
the linen in it, and then rinse it through two cold waters, with a very
little blue in the last.

TO WASH CHINA CRAPE SCARFS, &c.--If the fabric be good, these articles
of dress can be washed as frequently as may be required, and no
diminution of their beauty will be discoverable, even when the various
shades of green have been employed among other colors in the patterns.
In cleaning them, make a strong lather of boiling water--suffer it to
cool; when cold, or nearly so, wash the scarf quickly and thoroughly,
dip it immediately in cold hard water, in which a little salt has been
thrown (to preserve the colors), rinse, squeeze, and hang it out to dry
in the open air; pin it at its extreme edge to the line, so that it may
not in any part be folded together; the more rapidly it dries, the
clearer it will be.

TO CLEAN EMBROIDERY AND GOLD LACE.--For this purpose no alkaline liquors
are to be used; for while they clean the gold, they corrode the silk,
and change its color. Soap also alters the shade, and even the species
of certain colors. But spirit of wine may be used without any danger of
its injuring either color or quality; and, in many cases, proves as
effectual for restoring the lustre of the gold as the corrosive
detergents. But, though spirits of wine is the most innocent material
employed for this purpose, it is not in all cases proper. The golden
covering may be in some parts worn off; or the base metal with which it
has been alloyed may be corroded by the air, so as to leave the
particles of the gold disunited; while the silver underneath, tarnished
to a yellow hue, may continue a tolerable color to the whole, so it is
apparent that the removal of the tarnish would be prejudicial, and make
the lace or embroidery less like gold than it was before. It is
necessary that care should be taken.

TO REMOVE STAINS OF WINE OR FRUIT FROM TABLE LINEN.--A wine stain may
sometimes be removed by rubbing it, while wet, with common salt. It is
said, also, that sherry wine poured immediately on a place where port
wine has been spilled, will prevent its leaving a stain. A _certain_ way
of extracting fruit or wine stains from table-linen is to tie up some
cream of tartar in the stained part (so as to form a sort of bag), and
then to put the linen into a lather of soap and cold water, and boil it
awhile. Then transfer it wet to a lukewarm suds, wash and rinse it well,
and dry and iron it. The stains will disappear during the process.
Another way, is to mix, in equal quantities, soft soap, slackened lime,
and pearl-ash. Rub the stain with this preparation, and expose the linen
to the sun with the mixture plastered on it. If necessary, repeat the
application. As soon as the stain has disappeared, wash out the linen
immediately, as it will be injured if the mixture is left in it.

STAIN MIXTURE.--Take an ounce of sal-ammoniac (or hartshorn) and an
ounce of salt of tartar--mix them well, put them into a pint of soft
water, and bottle it for use, keeping it very tightly corked. Pour a
little of this liquid into a saucer, and wash in it those parts of a
white article that have been stained with ink, mildew, fruit, or red
wine. When the stains have, by this process, been removed, wash the
article in the usual manner.

CHEMICAL RENOVATING BALLS--for taking out grease, paint, pitch, tar,
from silks, stuffs, linen, woolen, carpets, hats, coats, &c., without
fading the color or injuring the cloth:--¼ ounce of fuller's earth, ¼
ounce of pipe-clay, 1 ounce salt of tartar, 1 ounce beef gall, 1 ounce
spirits of wine. Pound the hard parts and mix the ingredients well
together. Wet the stain with cold water, rub it well with this ball,
then sponge it with a wet sponge and the stain will disappear.

TO PREVENT COLORED THINGS FROM RUNNING.--Boil ¼ pound of soap till
nearly dissolved, then add a small piece of alum and boil with it. Wash
the things in this lather, but do not soap them. If they require a
second water put alum to that also as well as to the rinsing and blue
water. This will preserve them.

TO REMOVE STAINS FROM MOURNING DRESSES.--Take a good handful of
fig-leaves, and boil them in two quarts of water until reduced to a
pint. Squeeze the leaves and put the liquor into a bottle for use. The
articles, whether of bombasin, crape, cloth, &c., need only be rubbed
with a sponge dipped in the liquor, when the effect will be instantly
produced. If any reason exists to prevent the substance from being
wetted, then apply French chalk, which will absorb the grease from the
finest texture without injury.

TO SHRINK NEW FLANNEL.--New flannel should always be shrunk or washed
before it is made up, that it may be cut out more accurately, and that
the grease which is used in manufacturing it may be extracted. First,
cut off the list along the selvage edges of the whole piece. Then put it
into warm (not boiling) water, without soap. Begin at one end of the
piece, and rub it with both hands till you come to the other end; this
is to get out the grease and the blue with which new white flannel is
always tinged. Then do the same through another water. Rinse it through
a clean, lukewarm water; wring it lengthways, and stretch it well. In
hanging it out on a line do not suspend it in festoons, but spread it
along the line straight and lengthways. If dried in festoons, the edges
will be in great scollops, making it very difficult to cut out. It must
be dried in the sun. When dry let it be stretched even, clapped with the
hands, and rolled up tight and smoothly, till wanted.

GUM ARABIC STARCH.--Get two ounces of fine, white gum arabic, and pound
it to powder. Next put it into a pitcher, and pour on it a pint or more
of boiling water (according to the degree of strength you desire), and
then, having covered it, let it set all night. In the morning, pour it
carefully from the dregs into a clean bottle, cork it, and keep it for
use. A table-spoonful of gum water stirred into a pint of starch that
has been made in the usual manner, will give to lawns (either white or
printed) a look of newness to which nothing else can restore them after
washing. It is also good (much diluted) for thin white muslin and
bobinet.

TO WASH WHITE THREAD GLOVES AND STOCKINGS.--These articles are so
delicate as to require great care in washing, and they must not on any
account be rubbed. Make a lather of white soap and _cold_ water, and put
it into a saucepan. Soap the gloves or stockings well, put them in, and
set the saucepan over the fire. When they have come to a hard boil, take
them off, and when cool enough for your hand, squeeze them in the water.
Having prepared a fresh cold lather, boil them again in that. Then take
the pan off the fire, and squeeze them well again, after which they can
be stretched, dried, and then ironed on the wrong side.

TO CLEAN SILK STOCKINGS.--First wash the stockings in the usual manner,
to take out the rough dirt. After rinsing them in clean water, wash them
well in a fresh soap liquor. Then make a third soap liquor, which color
with a little stone-blue; then wash the stockings once more, take them
out, wring them, and particularly dry them. Now stove them with
brimstone, and draw on a wooden leg two stockings, one upon the other,
observing that the two fronts or outsides are face to face. Polish with
a glass bottle. The two first liquors should be only lukewarm, but the
third as hot as you can bear your hand in. Blondes and gauzes may be
whitened in the same manner, but there should be a little gum put in the
last liquor before they are stoved.

TO TAKE OUT MILDEW FROM CLOTHES.--Mix some soft soap with powdered
starch, half as much salt, and the juice of a lemon, lay it on the part
with a brush, let it be exposed in the air day and night, until the
stain disappears. Iron-moulds may be removed by the salt of lemons. Many
stains in linen may be taken out by dipping linen in sour buttermilk,
and then drying it in the sun; afterwards wash it in cold water several
times. Stains caused by acids may be removed by tying some pearlash up
in the stained part; scrape some soap in cold, soft water, and boil the
linen till the stain is out.

BLEACHING STRAW.--Straw is bleached, and straw bonnets cleaned, by
putting them into a cask into which a few brimstone matches are placed
lighted. The fumes of the sulphur have the effect of destroying the
color, or whitening the straw. The same effect may be produced by
dipping the straw into the chloride of lime dissolved in water.

TO WASH MOUSELINE-DE-LAINE.--Boil a pound of rice in five quarts of
water, and, when cool enough, wash in this, using the rice for soap.
Have another quantity ready, but strain the rice from this and use it
with warm water, keeping the rice strained off for a third washing
which, at the same time, stiffens and also brightens the colors.

TO BLEACH A FADED DRESS.--Wash the dress in hot suds, and boil it until
the color appears to be gone; then rinse it and dry it in the sun.
Should it not be rendered white by these means, lay the dress in the
open air, and bleach it for several days. If still not quite white,
repeat the boiling.

INDELIBLE MARKING INK, WITHOUT PREPARATION.--1½ drachms nitrate of
silver (lunar caustic), 1 ounce distilled water, ½ ounce strong mucilage
of gum arabic, ¾ drachm liquid ammonia; mix the above in a clean glass
bottle, cork tightly, and keep in a dark place till dissolved, and ever
afterwards. Directions for use:--Shake the bottle, then dip a clean
quill pen in the ink, and write or draw what you require on the article;
immediately hold it close to the fire, (without scorching) or pass a hot
iron over it, and it will become a deep and indelible black,
indestructible by either time or acids of any description.

MIXTURE FOR REMOVING INK STAINS AND IRON-MOULDS.--Cream of tartar and
salts of sorrel, one ounce each; mix well, and keep in a stoppered
bottle.

TO WASH HAIR-BRUSHES.--Never use soap. Take a piece of soda, dissolve
it in warm water, stand the brush in it, taking care that the water only
covers the bristles; it will almost immediately become white and clean;
stand it to dry in the open air with the bristles downwards, and it will
be found to be as firm as a new brush.

TO CLEAN HEAD AND CLOTHES-BRUSHES.--Put a table-spoonful of pearl-ash
into a pint of boiling water. Having fastened a bit of sponge to the end
of a stick, dip it into the solution, and wash the brush with it;
carefully going in among the bristles. Next pour over it some clean hot
water, and let it lie a little while. Then drain it, wipe it with a
cloth, and dry it before the fire.

Lola Montez in her "Arts of Beauty" gives the following receipts for
complexion, hair, &c:--

FOR THE COMPLEXION.--"Infuse wheat-bran, well sifted, for four hours in
white wine vinegar, add to it five yolks of eggs and two grains of
ambergris, and distill the whole. It should be carefully corked for
twelve or fifteen days, when it will be fit for use.

"Distill two handfuls of jessamine flowers in a quart of rose-water and
a quart of orange-water. Strain through porous paper, and add a scruple
of musk and a scruple of ambergris."

TO GIVE ELASTICITY OF FORM.--

  "Fat of the stag or deer          8 oz.
   Florence oil (or olive oil)      6 oz.
   Virgin wax                       3 oz.
   Musk                             1 grain.
   White brandy                     ½ pint.
   Rose-water                       4 oz.

"Put the fat, oil, and wax into a well glazed earthen vessel, and let
them simmer over a slow fire until they are assimilated; then pour in
the other ingredients, and let the whole gradually cool, when it will be
fit for use. There is no doubt but that this mixture, frequently and
thoroughly rubbed upon the body on going to bed, will impart a
remarkable degree of elasticity to the muscles. In the morning, after
this preparation has been used, the body should be thoroughly wiped with
a sponge, dampened with cold water."

FOR THE COMPLEXION.--"Take equal parts of the seeds of the melon,
pumpkin, gourd, and cucumber, pounded till they are reduced to powder;
add to it sufficient fresh cream to dilute the flour, and then add milk
enough to reduce the whole to a thin paste. Add a grain of musk, and a
few drops of the oil of lemon. Anoint the face with this, leave it on
twenty or thirty minutes, or overnight if convenient, and wash off with
warm water. It gives a remarkable purity and brightness to the
complexion.

"Infuse a handful of well sifted wheat bran for four hours in white wine
vinegar; add to it five yolks of eggs and two grains of musk, and
distill the whole. Bottle it, keep carefully corked fifteen days, when
it will be fit for use. Apply it over night, and wash in the morning
with tepid water."

TOOTH-POWDER.--

  "Prepared chalk      6 oz.
   Cassia powder       ½ oz.
   Orris-root          1 oz.

"These should be thoroughly mixed and used once a day with a firm
brush.

"A simple mixture of charcoal and cream of tartar is an excellent
tooth-powder."

TO WHITEN THE HAND.--"Both Spanish and French women--those, at least,
who are very particular to make the most of these charms--are in the
habit of sleeping in gloves which are lined or plastered over with a
kind of pomade to improve the delicacy and complexion of their hands.
This paste is generally made of the following ingredients:--

"Take half a pound of soft soap, a gill of salad oil, an ounce of mutton
tallow, and boil them till they are thoroughly mixed. After the boiling
has ceased, but before it is cold, add one gill of spirits of wine, and
a grain of musk.

"If any lady wishes to try this, she can buy a pair of gloves three or
four sizes larger than the hand, rip them open and spread on a thin
layer of the paste, and then sew the gloves up again. There is no doubt
that by wearing them every night they will give smoothness and a fine
complexion to the hands. Those who have the means, can send to Paris and
purchase them ready made.

"If the hands are inclined to be rough and to chap, the following wash
will remedy the evil.

  Lemon-juice             3 oz.
  White wine vinegar      3 oz.
  White brandy            ½ pint."

FOR THE HAIR.--"Beat up the white of four eggs into a froth, and rub
that thoroughly in close to the roots of the hair. Leave it to dry on.
Then wash the head and hair clean with a mixture of equal parts of rum
and rose-water."

"HONEY-WATER.--

  "Essence of ambergris       1 dr.
   Essence of musk            1 dr.
   Essence of bergamot        2 drs.
   Oil of cloves             15 drops.
   Orange-flower water        4 oz.
   Spirits of wine            5 oz.
   Distilled water            4 oz.

"All these ingredients should be mixed together, and left about fourteen
days, then the whole to be filtered through porous paper, and bottled
for use.

"This is a good hair-wash and an excellent perfume."

"TO REMOVE PIMPLES.--There are many kinds of pimples, some of which
partake almost of the nature of ulcers, which require medical treatment;
but the small red pimple, which is most common, may be removed by
applying the following twice a-day:--

  "Sulphur water                  1 oz.
   Acetated liquor of ammonia     ¼ oz.
   Liquor of potassa              1 gr.
   White wine vinegar             2 oz.
   Distilled water                2 oz."

"TO REMOVE BLACK SPECKS OR 'FLESHWORMS.'--Sometimes little black specks
appear about the base of the nose, or on the forehead, or in the hollow
of the chin which are called 'fleshworms,' and are occasioned by
coagulated lymph that obstructs the pores of the skin. They may be
squeezed out by pressing the skin, and ignorant persons suppose them to
be little worms. They are permanently removed by washing with warm
water, and severe friction with a towel, and then applying a little of
the following preparation:--

  "Liquor of potassa        1 oz.
   Cologne                  2 oz.
   White brandy.            4 oz.

"The warm water and friction alone are sometimes sufficient."

"TO REMOVE FRECKLES.--The most celebrated compound ever used for the
removal of freckles was called Unction de Maintenon, after the
celebrated Madame de Maintenon, mistress and wife of Louis XIV. It is
made as follows:--

  "Venice soap                     1 oz.
   Lemon-juice                     ½ oz.
   Oil of bitter almonds           ¼ oz.
   Deliquidated oil of tartar      ¼ oz.
   Oil of rhodium                  3 drops

"First dissolve the soap in the lemon-juice, then add the two oils, and
place the whole in the sun till it acquires the consistence of ointment,
and then add the oil of rhodium. Anoint the freckly face at night with
this unction, and wash in the morning with pure water, or, if
convenient, with a mixture of elder-flower and rose-water.

"TO REMOVE TAN.--An excellent wash to remove tan is called Crème de
l'Enclos, and is made thus:

  "New milk             ½ pint.
   Lemon-juice          ¼ oz.
   White brandy         ½ oz.

"Boil the whole, and skim it clear from all scum. Use it night and
morning.

"A famous preparation with the Spanish ladies for removing the effects
of the sun and making the complexion bright, is composed simply of equal
parts of lemon-juice and the white of eggs. The whole is beat together
in a varnished earthen pot, and set over a slow fire, and stirred with a
wooden spoon till it acquires the consistence of soft pomatum. This
compound is called Pommade de Seville. If the face is well washed with
rice-water before it is applied, it will remove freckles, and give a
fine lustre to the complexion."

SUGGESTIONS TO VISITERS.


An amusing writer of the last century, justly complains of the want of
definite words to express, distinctly and unmistakably, the different
degrees of visits, with reference to their length. Whether the stay of
the guest comprises ten minutes, an hour, an evening, a day, a week, or
a month, still it goes under the vague and general term of a visit.

We propose, humourously, that if the stay of the guest exceeds a week,
it should be called "a visitation." If it includes a dining, or a
tea-drinking, or evening-spending, it may be termed "a visit;" while a
mere call can be mentioned as "a vis."

The idea is a very convenient one, and we should like to see it carried
out by general adoption. Meanwhile, we must, for the present, be
contented with the old uncertain practice of saying only "visit" and
"visiter." We think it our duty to explain that this chapter is designed
for the benefit of such inexperienced females as may be about to engage
in what we should like to call "a visitation."

To begin at the beginning:--

Do not _volunteer_ a visit to a friend in the country, or in another
town, unless you have had what is called "a standing invitation," with
every reason to believe that it was sincerely and cordially given. Many
invitations are mere "words of course," without meaning or motive,
designed only to make a show of politeness, and not intended to be taken
literally, or ever acted upon. Even when convinced that your friend is
really your friend, that she truly loves you, has invited you in all
sincerity, and will be happy in your society, still, it is best to
apprize her, duly, of the exact day and hour when she may expect you;
always with the proviso that it is convenient to herself to receive you
at that time, and desiring her to let you know, candidly, if it is not.
However close your intimacy, an unexpected arrival may possibly produce
inconvenience to your hostess; particularly if her family is numerous,
or her bedchambers few. The case is somewhat different, where the house
is large, and where there is no scarcity of apartments for guests, of
servants to wait on them, or of money to furnish the means of
entertaining them liberally. But even then, the time of arrival should
be previously intimated, and observed as punctually as possible. Such
are now the facilities of travelling, and the rapidity of transmitting
intelligence, that there is no excuse for unexpected or ill-timed
visits; and when unexpected, they are too frequently ill-timed. When
attempted as "agreeable surprises," they are seldom very agreeable to
the surprised. Also the improvement in manners has rendered these
incursions old-fashioned and ungenteel. Above all, never volunteer
visits to families whose circumstances are so narrow that they can ill
afford the expense of a guest.

Having received an invitation, reply to it immediately; and do not keep
your friends waiting, day after day, in uncertainty whether you mean to
accept or decline it; causing them, perhaps, to delay asking other
visiters till they have ascertained if you are to be expected or not.

Excuse yourself from accepting invitations from persons whom you do not
like, and whose dispositions, habits, feelings, and opinions are in most
things the reverse of your own. There can be no pleasure in daily and
familiar intercourse where there is no congeniality. Such visits never
end well; and they sometimes produce irreconcilable quarrels, or at
least a lasting and ill-concealed coolness. Though for years you may
have always met on decent terms, you may become positive enemies from
living a short time under the same roof; and there is something
dishonourable in laying yourself under obligations and receiving
civilities from persons whom you secretly dislike, and in whose society
you can have little or no enjoyment.

When you arrive, take occasion to mention how long you intend to stay;
that your hostess may plan her arrangements accordingly. It is rude and
inconsiderate to keep her in ignorance of the probable duration of your
visit. And when the allotted time has expired, do not be persuaded to
extend it farther, unless you are earnestly, and with undoubted
sincerity invited to do so. It is much better that your friends should
part with you reluctantly, than you should give them reason to wish your
visit shorter. Even if it _has_ been very pleasant on both sides, it may
not continue so if prolonged too far. Take care of wearing out your
welcome. Besides, your room may be wanted for another guest.

On your first evening, enquire the hours of the house, that you may
always be ready to comply with them. Rise early enough to be washed and
dressed in time for breakfast; but if you are ready too early, remain in
your own apartment, or walk about the garden, or go to the library till
the cleaning and arranging of the sitting-room has been completed.
Meanwhile, you can occupy yourself with a book, if you stay in your own
room.

As soon as you quit your bed, take off the bedclothes, (each article
separately,) and spread them widely over the chairs, turning the
mattrass or bed as far down as it will go. This will give the bedding
time to air; and in all houses it should be done every morning, the
whole year round. Before you leave the room, raise the windows as high
as they will go, (unless it should be raining, or snowing,) that the
apartment may be well ventilated. Fortunate are those who have been
accustomed to sleeping always with the sash more or less open, according
to the weather, or the season. Their health will be much the better for
the excellent practice of constantly admitting fresh air into their
sleeping-room. See Dr. Franklin's essay on the "Art of Sleeping Well."
Mr. Combe, who has written copiously on this subject, says it not only
improves the health, but the complexion; and that ladies who follow this
practice continue to look young long after those who sleep in close
rooms have faded and shrivelled. Except in a very unhealthy climate, or
in the neighbourhood of marshes, no external air can be so unwholesome,
or productive of such baneful effects on the constitution, as the same
air breathed over and over again in a close room, and returning
continually to the lungs, till before morning it becomes unfit to be
breathed at all. Sleeping with the windows closed in a room newly
painted has produced fatal diseases. To some lungs the vapour of white
lead is poisonous. To none is it quite innoxious. Its dangerous
properties may be neutralized by placing in newly-painted rooms, large
tubs of water, into each of which has been mixed an ounce of vitriol.
The tubs must be set near the walls, and the water and vitriol renewed
every day. The introduction of zinc-paint promises to put that of white
lead out of use; as zinc is quite as cheap, and not at all pernicious to
health.

At sleeping hours the air of a bedroom should be perfectly free from all
scents, either pleasant or otherwise. Many persons cannot sleep with
flowers in their chamber, or with any sort of perfume. It is best not.

If when on a visit, you find that the chambermaid does not make your bed
so that you can sleep comfortably, show her how to do it, (privately,)
but say nothing to your hostess. There is but one way of making a bed
properly; and yet it is surprising how little that way is known or
remembered. First, shake up the bed high and evenly; turning it over,
and see that the foot is not higher than the head. If there is a
mattrass above the bed, turn the mattrass half up, and then half down,
till you have shaken up the bed beneath. Next spread on the under-sheet,
laying it well over the bolster to secure it from dragging down and
getting under the shoulders. However, to most beds now, there is a
bolster-case. Then tuck in the under-sheet, well, at both sides, to
prevent its getting loose and disordered in the night. For the same
reason tuck in the upper-sheet, well, at the foot, leaving the sides
loose. Tuck in the blankets at bottom, but not at the sides. Lay the
counterpane smoothly over the whole. Turn it down at the top; and turn
down the upper-sheet above it, so as to conceal the blankets entirely.

Should the chambermaid neglect your room, or be remiss in filling your
pitchers, or in furnishing you with clean towels, speak to her on the
subject when alone. She will hardly, for her own sake, inform her
mistress that you have had occasion to find fault with her; unless she
is very insolent or sulky, she will say she is sorry, and will promise
to do better in future. Complaining to her mistress of these neglects
will probably give offence to the lady, who may be of that wayward
(though too common) disposition which will allow no one except herself,
to find any deficiency in _her_ servants. As mistresses are frequently
very touchy on these points, your hostess may hint that your statement
is incredible, and that "no one ever complained before." Above all
things, avoid letting her know that you have found or felt insects in
your bed; a circumstance that may chance sometimes to happen even in the
best kept houses. In a warm climate, or in an old house, the utmost care
and the most vigilant neatness cannot always prevent it. It may be
caused by the bringing of baggage from boats, or ships, and by servants
neglecting their own beds; a too common practice with them, unless the
mistress or her housekeeper compels them to be cleanly, and sees that
they are so.

If you have proof positive that your bed is not free from these
intolerable nuisances, confide this fact to the chambermaid only, and
desire her to attend to it speedily. She will do so the more readily, if
you promise her a reward in case of complete success. Enjoining her to
manage this as quietly as possible, and to say nothing about it to any
one, may spare you a scene with your hostess; who, though you have
always regarded her as your warm friend, may, notwithstanding, become
your enemy for life, in consequence of your having presumed to be
incommoded in _her_ house, where "nobody ever complained before." A
well-bred, sensible, good-tempered woman will not, of course, take
offence for such a cause; and will believe that there must have been
good reason for the complaint, rather than suppose that her guest and
her friend would mention so delicate a subject even to a servant, unless
there was positive proof. And she will rightly think it was well to make
it known, and have it immediately remedied. But all women who invite
friends to visit them, are not sensible and good-tempered. Therefore,
take care.

For similar reasons, should a servant purloin any article belonging to
you, (and servants, considered quite honest, will sometimes pilfer from
a visiter when they would not dare to do so from their mistress,) it is
safest to pass it over, unless the article stolen is of consequence. You
may find your hostess very unwilling to believe that a servant of _hers_
could possibly be dishonest; and much may be said, or evidently
_thought_, that will be very painful to you, her guest.

Notwithstanding all that may be said to you about "feeling yourself
perfectly at home," and "considering your friend's house as your own,"
be very careful not literally to do so. In fact, it is impossible you
_should_ with any propriety--particularly, if it is your first visit.
You cannot possibly know the real character and disposition of any
acquaintance, till after you have had some experience in living under
the same roof. If you find your hostess all that you can desire, and
that she is making your visit every way agreeable, be very grateful to
her, and let her understand that you are exceedingly happy at her house;
but avoid staying too long, or taxing her kindness too highly.

Avoid encroaching unreasonably upon her time. Expect her not to devote
an undue portion of it to you. She will probably be engaged in the
superintendence of household affairs, or in the care of her young
children, for two or three hours after breakfast. So at these hours do
not intrude upon her,--but amuse yourself with some occupation of your
own, till you see that it is convenient to the family for you to join
them in the sitting-room. In summer afternoons, retire for an hour or
more, soon after dinner, to your own apartment, that you may give your
friends an opportunity of taking their naps, and that you may do the
same yourself. You will be brighter in the evening, from indulging in
this practice; and less likely to feel sleepy, when you ought to be wide
awake, and ready to assist in entertaining your entertainers. A silent
visiter, whether silent from dulness or indolence, or a habit of
taciturnity, is never an agreeable one.

Yet, however pleasant the conversation, have sufficient self-denial to
break off in seasonable time, so as not to keep the family up by
continuing in the parlour till a late hour. Some of them may be tired
and sleepy, though you are not. And between ten and eleven o'clock it is
well to retire.

If you have shopping to do, and are acquainted with the town, you can be
under no necessity of imposing on any lady of the family the task of
accompanying you. To shop _for_ others, or _with_ others, is a most
irksome fatigue. Even when a stranger in the place, you can easily, by
enquiring of the family, learn where the best stores are to be found,
and go to them by yourself.

While you are a guest at the house of a friend, do not pass too much of
your time in visiting at _other_ houses, unless she is with you. You
have no right to avail yourself of the conveniences of eating and
sleeping at her mansion, without giving her and her family the largest
portion of your company.

While a guest yourself, it is taking an unwarrantable liberty to invite
any of your friends or relatives to come there and spend a day or
days.[1]

Refrain from visiting any person with whom your hostess is at enmity,
even if that person has been one of your own intimate friends. You will
in all probability be regarded as "a spy in the camp." There is nothing
so difficult as to observe a strict neutrality; and on hearing both
sides, it is scarcely possible not to lean more to the one than to the
other. The friend whose hospitality you are enjoying will soon begin to
look coldly upon you, if she finds you seeking the society of her enemy;
and she may evince that coldness whenever you come home from these
visits. However unjust her suspicions, it is too probable she may begin
to think that you are drawn in to make her, and her house, and family,
subjects of conversation when visiting her adversary; therefore, she
will cease to feel kindly toward you. If you understand, soon after your
arrival, that there is no probability of a reconciliation, send at once
a concise note to the lady with whom your hostess is at variance;
express your regret at the circumstance, and excuse yourself from
visiting her while you remain in your present residence. This note
should be polite, short, and decisive, and so worded as to give no
offence to either side; for, before sending, it is proper for you to
show it, while yet unsealed, to the friend with whom you are staying. And
then let the correspondence be carried no further. The lady to whom it
is addressed, will, of course, return a polite answer; such as you may
show to your hostess.

It is to be presumed, she will not be so lost to all delicacy and
propriety, as to intrude herself into the house of her enemy for the
purpose of visiting you. But, if she does, it is your place civilly to
decline seeing her. A slight coolness, a mere offence on a point of
etiquette, which, if let alone, would die out like a tinder-spark, has
been fanned, and blown into a flame by the go-betweening of a so-called
_mutual friend_. We repeat, while you are a visiter at a house, hold no
intercourse with any foe of that house. It is unkind and disrespectful
to the family with whom you are staying, and very unsafe for yourself.

If you know that your friends are hurried with their sewing, or with
preparations for company, offer to assist them, as far as you can. But
if you are conscious of an incapacity to do such things well, it is
better to excuse yourself by candidly saying so, than to attempt them
and spoil them. At the same time, express your willingness to learn, if
permitted. And you _may_ learn, while staying at the house of a clever,
notable friend, many things that you have hitherto had no opportunity of
acquiring.

When called on by any of your own acquaintances, they will not expect
you to ask them to stay to tea, or to dinner. That is the business of
your hostess--not yours.

If you are a young lady that has beaux, remember that you have no right
to encourage the over-frequency of their visits in any house that is not
your home, or to devote much of your time and attention to flirtation
with them. Above all, avoid introducing to the family of your
entertainers, young men whom they are likely in any respect to
disapprove. No stranger who has the feelings of a gentleman, will make a
_second_ visit to any house unless he is invited by the head of the
family, and he will take care that his visits shall not begin too early,
or continue too late. However delightful he may find the society of his
lady-fair, he has no right to incommode the family with whom she is
staying, by prolonging his visits to an unseasonable hour. If he seems
inclined to do so, there is nothing amiss in his fair-one herself
hinting to him that it is past ten o'clock. Also, there should be "a
temperance" even in his morning calls. It is rude in a young lady and
gentleman to monopolize one of the parlours nearly all the
forenoon--even if they are _really_ courting--still more if they are
only pretending to court; for instance, sitting close to each other, and
whispering on subjects that might be discussed aloud before the whole
house, and talked of across the room.

Young ladies noted for abounding in beaux, are generally rather
inconvenient visiters; except in very spacious houses, and in gay, idle
families. They should not take the liberty of inviting the said beaux
to stay to dinner or to tea. Leave that civility to the head of the
house,--without whose invitation no _gentleman_ ought to remain.

It is proper for visiters to put out and pay for their own washing,
ironing, &c. Therefore, carry among your baggage two clothes-bags; one
to be taken away by the laundress, the other to receive your clothes in
the interval. You may always hear of a washerwoman, by enquiring of the
servants of the house.

On no consideration question the servants, or talk to them about the
family, particularly if they are slaves.

Take with you a small writing-case, containing whatever stationery you
may be likely to want during your visit; including post-office stamps.
Thus you will spare yourself, and spare the family, the inconvenience of
applying to them whenever you have occasion for pen, ink, paper, &c. If
you have no ink with you, the first time you go out, stop in at a
stationer's store, and buy a small sixpenny bottle that will stand
steadily alone, and answer the purpose of an inkstand. Also, take care
to be well supplied with all sorts of sewing articles. There are young
ladies who go from home on long visits, quite unprovided with even
thimbles and scissors; depending all the time on borrowing. Many
visiters, though very agreeable in great things, are exceedingly
troublesome in little ones.

Take care not to slop your washing-stand, or to lay a piece of wet soap
upon it. Spread your wet towels carefully on the towel-rail. See that
your trunks are not placed so near the wall as to injure the paper or
paint when the lid is thrown back.

If, when travelling, you are to stop but one night at the house of a
friend, it is not necessary, for that one night, to have _all_ your
baggage carried up-stairs, particularly if your trunks are large or
heavy. Before leaving home, put into your carpet-bag all the things you
will require for that night; and then no other article of your baggage
need be taken up to your chamber. They can be left down-stairs, in some
safe and convenient place, which your hostess will designate. This will
save much trouble, and preclude all the injury that may otherwise accrue
to the banisters and staircase-wall, by the corners of trunks knocking
against them. It is possible to put into a carpet-satchel (that can be
carried in your own hand) a night-gown and night-cap, (tightly rolled,)
with hair-brush, combs, tooth-brush, &c. It is surprising how much these
hand-satchels may be made to contain, when packed closely. No lady or
gentleman should travel without one. In going from home for one night
only, a satchel is, frequently, all that is requisite.

On concluding your visit, tell your entertainers that it has been
pleasant, and express your gratitude for the kindness you have received
from them, and your hope that they will give you an opportunity of
returning their civilities. Give a parting gratuity to each of the
servants--the sum being according to your means, and to the length of
your visit. Give this to each servant _with your own hands_, going to
them for the purpose. Do not tempt their integrity, by entrusting (for
instance) to the chambermaid the fee intended for the cook. She may
dishonestly keep it to herself, and make the cook believe that you were
"so mean as to go away without leaving any thing at all for her." Such
things have happened, as we know. Therefore, give all your fees in
person.

After you get home, write very soon (within two or three days) to the
friend at whose house you have been staying, tell her of your journey,
&c., and allude to your visit as having been very agreeable.

The visit over, be of all things careful not to repeat any thing that
has come to your knowledge in consequence, and which your entertainers
would wish to remain unknown. While inmates of their house, you may have
unavoidably become acquainted with some particulars of their way of
living not generally known, and which, perhaps, would not raise them in
public estimation, if disclosed. Having been their guest, and partaken
of their hospitality, you are bound in honour to keep silent on every
topic that would injure them in the smallest degree, if repeated.
Unhappily, there are ladies so lost to shame, as, after making a long
visit, to retail for the amusement of their cronies, all sorts of
invidious anecdotes concerning the family at whose house they have been
staying; adding by way of corroboration--"I assure you this is all true,
for I stayed five or six weeks at their house, and had a good chance of
knowing." More shame then to tell it!

Whatever painful discoveries are made during a visit, should be kept as
closely secret as if secrecy was enjoined by oath. It is not sufficient
to refrain from "mentioning names." No clue should be given that could
possibly enable the hearers even to hazard a guess.

 So it is to order the carriage without first asking permission of
your hostess.


THE VISITED.


Having invited a friend to pass a few days or weeks at your house, and
expecting her at a certain time, send a carriage to meet her at the
rail-road depôt or the steamboat wharf, and if her host or hostess goes
in it, so much the better; but do not take the children along, crowding
the vehicle, for the sake of giving them a ride. Arriving at your house,
have her baggage taken at once to the apartment prepared for her, and
when she goes up-stairs, send a servant with her to unstrap her trunks.
Then let her be left _alone_ to arrange her dress. It is to be supposed
that before her arrival, the mistress of the house has inspected the
chamber of her guest, to see that all is right--that there are _two_
pitchers full of fresh water on the stand, and three towels on the rail,
(two fine and one coarse,) with a china mug for teeth-cleaning, and a
tumbler to drink from; a slop jar of course, and a foot-bath. We
conclude that in all genteel and well-furnished houses, none of these
articles are wanting in every bedroom. On the mantel-piece a candle or
lamp, with a box of lucifer matches beside it--the candle to be replaced
by a new one every morning when the chambermaid arranges the room--or
the lamp to be trimmed daily; so that the visiter may have a light at
hand whenever she pleases, without ringing the bell and waiting till a
servant brings one up.

By-the-bye, when a guest is expected, see previously that the bells and
locks of her room are in order; and if they are not, have them repaired.

If it is cold weather, let her find a good fire in her room; and the
shutters open, that she may have sufficient light. Also an extra
blanket, folded, and laid on the foot of the bed. If summer, let the
sashes be raised, and the shutters bowed. The room should have an easy
chair with a heavy foot-cushion before it,--a low chair also, to sit on
when shoes and stockings are to be changed, and feet washed. In a spare
chamber there should be both a mattrass and a feather-bed, that your
visiters may choose which they will have uppermost. Though you and all
your own family may like to sleep hard, your guests may find it
difficult to sleep at all on a mattrass with a paillasse under it. To
many constitutions hard sleeping is not only intolerable, but pernicious
to health.

Let the centre-table be furnished with a writing-case well supplied with
all that is necessary, the inkstand filled, and with _good black ink_;
and some sheets of letter-paper and note-paper laid near it. Also, some
books, such as you think your friend will like. Let her find, at least,
one bureau vacant; _all_ the drawers empty, so that she may be able to
unpack her muslins, &c., and arrange them at once. The same with the
wardrobe or commode, so that she may have space to hang up her
dresses--the press-closet, likewise, should be for her use while she
stays.

By giving up the spare bedroom _entirely_ to your visiter you will very
much oblige her, and preclude the necessity of disturbing or
interrupting her by coming in to get something out of drawers, closets,
&c.

Every morning, after the chambermaid has done her duty, (the room of the
visiter is the first to be put in order,) the hostess should go in to
see that all is right. This done, no further inspection is necessary for
that day. There are ladies who, when a friend is staying with them, are
continually slipping into her chamber when she is out of it, to see if
the guest has done nothing amiss--such as moving a chair to suit her own
convenience, or opening a shutter to let in more light, at the possible
risk of hastening imperceptibly the fading of the carpet. There are
families who condemn themselves to a perpetual twilight, by living in
the dimness of closed shutters, to the great injury of their eyes. And
this is endured to retard awhile the fading of furniture too showy for
comfort. We have seen staircase-windows kept always shut and bolted, (so
that visiters had to grope their way in darkness,) lest the small
portion of stair-carpet just beneath the window should fade before the
rest.

It is not pleasant to be a guest in a house where you perceive that
your hostess is continually and fretfully on the watch, lest some almost
imperceptible injury should accrue to the furniture. We have known
ladies who were always uneasy when their visiters sat down on a sofa or
an ottoman, and could not forbear inviting them to change their seats
and take chairs. We suppose the fear was that the more the
damask-covered seats were used, the sooner they would wear out. Let no
visiter be so rash as to sit on a pier-divan with her back near a
mirror. The danger is imminent--not only of breaking the glass by
inadvertently leaning against it, but of certainly fretting its owner,
with uneasiness, all the time. Children should be positively interdicted
taking these precarious seats.

It is very kind and considerate to enquire of your guest if there is any
dish, or article of food that she particularly likes, so that you may
have it on the table while she stays; and also, if there is any thing
peculiarly disagreeable to her, so that you may refrain from having it
during her visit. A well-bred and sensible woman will not encroach upon
your kindness, or take an undue advantage of it, in this respect or any
other.

For such deficiencies as may be avoided or remedied, refrain from making
the foolish apology that you consider her "no stranger"--and that you
regard her "just as one of the family." If you invite her at all, it is
your duty, for your own sake as well as hers, to treat her well in every
thing. You will lose nothing by doing so.

If she desires to assist you in sewing, and has brought no work of her
own, you may avail yourself of her offer, and employ her in
moderation--but let it be in moderation only, and when sitting in the
family circle. When alone in her own room, she, of course, would much
rather read, write, or occupy herself in some way for her own benefit,
or amusement. There are ladies who seem to expect that their guests
should perform as much work as hired seamstresses.

Let the children be strictly forbidden to run into the apartments of
visiters. Interdict them from going thither, unless sent with a message;
and then let them be made to understand that they are always to knock at
the door, and not go in till desired to do so. Also, that they are not
to play and make a noise in the neighbourhood of her room. And when she
comes into the parlour, that they are not to jump on her lap, put their
hands into her pockets, or rummage her work-basket, or rumple and soil
her dress by clinging to it with their hands. Neither should they be
permitted to amuse themselves by rattling on the lower keys when she is
playing on the piano, or interrupt her by teazing her all the time to
play "for them to dance." All this we have seen, and the mothers have
never checked it. To permit children to ask visiters for pennies or
sixpences is mean and contemptible. And, if money _is_ given them by a
guest, they should be made to return it immediately.

Enquire on the first evening, if your visiter is accustomed to taking
any refreshment before she retires for the night. If she is, have
something sent up to her room every night, unless your own family are
in the same habit. Then let sufficient for all be brought into the
parlour. These little repasts are very pleasant, especially at the close
of a long winter evening, and after coming home from a place of public
amusement.

To "welcome the coming--speed the parting guest"--is a good maxim. So
when your visiter is about to leave you, make all smooth and convenient
for her departure. Let her be called up at an early hour, if she is to
set out in the morning. Send a servant up to strap and bring down her
trunks, as soon as she has announced that they are ready; and see that
an early breakfast is prepared for her, and some of the family up and
dressed to share it with her. Slip some cakes into her satchel for her
to eat on the road, in case, by some chance, she should not reach the
end of her journey at the usual hour. Have a carriage at the door in due
time, and let some male member of the family accompany her to the
starting-place and see her off, attending to her baggage and procuring
her tickets.




TEA VISITERS.


When you have invited a friend to take tea with you, endeavour to render
her visit as agreeable as you can; and try by all means _to make her
comfortable_. See that your lamps are lighted at an early hour,
particularly those of the entry and stair-case, those parts of the house
always becoming dark as soon as the sun is down; and to persons coming
in directly from the light of the open air, they always seem darker than
they really are. Have the parlours lighted rather earlier than usual,
that your guest, on her entrance, may be in no danger of running against
the tables, or stumbling over chairs. In rooms heated by a furnace, or
by any other invisible fire, it is still more necessary to have the
lamps lighted early.

If there is a coal-grate, see that the fire is burning clear and
brightly, that the bottom has been well-raked of cinders and ashes, and
the hearth swept clean. A dull fire, half-choked with dead cinders, and
an ashy hearth, give a slovenly and dreary aspect to the most elegantly
furnished parlour. A sufficiently large grate (if the fire is well made
up, and plenty of fresh coal put on about six o'clock) will generally
require no further replenishing during the evening, unless the weather
is unusually cold; and then more fuel should be added at eight or nine
o'clock, so as to make the room comfortable.

In summer evenings, let the window-sashes be kept up, or the slats of
the venetian blinds turned open, so that your guest may find the
atmosphere of the rooms cool and pleasant. There should always be fans
(feather or palm-leaf) on the centre-tables.

The domestic that attends the door should be instructed to show the
guest up-stairs, as soon as she arrives; conducting her to an unoccupied
apartment, where she may take off her bonnet, and arrange her hair, or
any part of her dress that may require change or improvement. The lady
should then be left to herself. Nothing is polite that can possibly
incommode or embarrass--therefore, it is a mistaken civility for the
hostess, or some female member of the family to follow the visiter
up-stairs, and remain with her all the time she is preparing for her
appearance in the parlour. We have seen an inquisitive little girl
permitted by her mother to accompany a guest to the dressing-table, and
watch her all the while she was at the glass; even following her to the
corner in which she changed her shoes; the child talking, and asking
questions incessantly. This should not be. Let both mothers and children
understand that, on all occasions, over-officiousness is not politeness,
and that nothing troublesome and inconvenient is ever agreeable.

The toilet-table should be always furnished with a clean hair-brush, and
a nice comb. We recommend those hair-brushes that have a mirror on the
back, so as to afford the lady a glimpse of the back of her head and
neck. Better still, as an appendage to a dressing-table, is a regular
hand-mirror, of sufficient size to allow a really _satisfactory_ view.
These hand-mirrors are very convenient, to be used in conjunction with
the large dressing-glass. Their cost is but trifling. The
toilet-pincushion should always have pins in it. A small work-box
properly furnished with needles, scissors, thimble, and cotton-spools,
ought also to find a place on the dressing-table, in case the visiter
may have occasion to repair any accident that may have happened to her
dress.

For want of proper attention to such things, in an ill-ordered, though
perhaps a very showy establishment, we have known an _expected_ visiter
ushered first into a dark entry, then shown into a dark parlour with an
ashy hearth, and the fire nearly out: then, after groping her way to a
seat, obliged to wait till a small hand-lamp could be procured to light
her dimly up a steep, sharp-turning stair-case; and then, by the same
lamp, finding on the neglected dressing-table a broken comb, an old
brush, and an empty pincushion,--or (quite as probably) nothing at
all--not to mention two or three children coming to watch and stare at
her. On returning to the parlour, the visiter would probably find the
fire just then making up, and the lamp still unlighted, because it had
first to be trimmed. Meanwhile, the guest commences her visit with an
uncomfortable feeling of self-reproach for coming too early; all things
denoting that she was not expected so soon. In such houses everybody
comes too early. However late, there will be nothing in readiness.

The hostess should be in the parlour, prepared to receive her visiter,
and to give her at once a seat in the corner of a sofa, or in a
fauteuil, or large comfortable chair; if a rocking-chair, a footstool is
an indispensable appendage. By-the-bye, the dizzy and ungraceful
practice of rocking in a rocking-chair is now discontinued by all
genteel people, except when entirely alone. A lady should never be seen
to rock in a chair, and the rocking of a gentleman looks silly. Rocking
is only fit for a nurse putting a baby to sleep. When children get into
a large rocking-chair, they usually rock it over backward, and fall out.
These chairs are now seldom seen in a parlour. Handsome, stuffed easy
chairs, that are moved on castors, are substituted--and of these, half a
dozen of various forms are not considered too many.

Give your visiter a fan to cool herself, if the room is warm, or to
shade her eyes from the glare of the fire or the light--for the latter
purpose, a broad hand-screen is generally used, but a palm-leaf fan will
do for both. In buying these fans, choose those whose handle is the firm
natural stem, left remaining on the leaf. They are far better than those
with handles of bamboo, which in a short time become loose and rickety.

There are many persons who, professing never to use a fan themselves,
seem to think that nobody can by any chance require one; and therefore
they selfishly keep nothing of the sort in their rooms.

If, in consequence of dining very late, you are in the custom of also
taking tea at a late hour--or making but slight preparations for that
repast--waive that custom when you expect a friend whom you know to be
in the practice of dining early, and who, perhaps, has walked far enough
to feel fatigued, and to acquire an appetite. For her accommodation,
order the tea earlier than usual, and let it be what is called "a _good_
tea." If there is ample room at table, do not have the tea carried
round,--particularly if you have but one servant to hand the whole. It
is tedious, inconvenient, and unsatisfactory. There is no comfortable
way of eating bread and butter, toast, or buttered cakes, except when
seated at table. When handed round, there is always a risk of their
greasing the dresses of the ladies--the greasing of fingers is
inevitable--though that is of less consequence, now that the absurd
practice of eating in gloves is wisely abolished among genteel people.

Still, if the company is too numerous for all to be commodiously seated
at the usual family table, and if the table cannot be enlarged--it is
better to have tea carried round by _two_ servants, even if an extra one
is hired for the occasion, than to crowd your guests uncomfortably. One
person too many will cause inconvenience to all the rest, however the
hostess may try to pass it off, by assuring the company that there is
quite room enough, and that she has seen a still larger number seated
round that very table. Everybody knows that "what's impossible a'n't
true."

In setting a tea-table, see that there is not only enough, but _more
than enough_ of cups and saucers, plates, knives and forks, spoons,
napkins, &c. Let the _extra_ articles be placed near the lady of the
house,--to be distributed, if wanted. We have known families who had the
means and the inclination to be hospitable, that never sat down to table
without several spare _covers_, as the French call them, ready for
accidental guests.

Unless you have domestics on whom you can implicitly rely, it is well to
go into the eating-room about ten minutes before the announcement of
tea, and to see that all is right; that the tea is strong and properly
made, and the pot (which should be scalded twice) is not filled nearly
to overflowing with a superabundance of water. The practice of drowning
away all the flavour of the tea is strangely prevalent with servants;
who are also very apt to neglect scalding the tea-pot; and who do not,
or will not, remember that the kettle should be boiling hard at the
moment the water is poured on the tea--otherwise the infusion will be
insipid and tasteless, no matter how liberally the Chinese plant has
been afforded.

If your cook is not _habitually_ a good coffee-maker, the coffee will
most probably be sent in cold, thick, and weak--for want of some
previous supervision. Let it have that supervision.

We have heard of tea-tables (even in splendid establishments) being left
entirely to the _mis_management of incompetent or negligent servants; so
that when the company sat down, there was found a deficiency in some of
the indispensable appendages; such as spoons, and even forks, and
napkins--butter-knives forgotten, and (worse than all) _cooking-butter_
served in mistake for the better sort. By-the-bye, the use of
cooking-butter should be abolished in all genteel-houses. If the butter
is not good enough to eat on the surface of cold bread or on warm cakes,
it is not good enough to eat in the inside of sweet cakes, or in pastry,
or in any thing else; and is totally unfit to be mixed with vegetables
or sauces. The use of butter is to make things taste well; if it makes
them taste ill, let it be entirely omitted: for bad butter is not only
unpalatable, but unwholesome. There are houses in which the money wasted
on one useless bauble for the drawing-room would furnish the family with
excellent fresh butter for a whole year--enough for all purposes.

We know, _by experience_, that it is possible to make very fine butter
even in the State of New York, and to have it fresh in winter as in
summer, though not so rich and yellow. Let the cows be well fed, well
sheltered, and _kept fat_ and clean--the dairy utensils always in
perfect order--churning done twice or thrice every week--all the milk
worked well out--and the butter will surely be good.

If cakes for tea have been made at home, and they have turned out
failures, (as is often the case with home-made cakes where there is not
much practice in baking them,) do not have them brought to table at all,
but send to a shop and get others. It is rude to set before your guests
what you know is unfit for them to eat. And heavy, tough, ill-baked
things are discreditable to any house where the means of obtaining
better are practicable.

In sending for cakes to a confectioner, do not _a second time_ allow him
to put you off with stale ones. This many confectioners are in the
practice of doing, if it is passed over without notice. Stale cakes
should at once be sent back, (with a proper reproof,) and fresh ones
required. Let the confectioner with whom you deal understand that he is
_not_ to palm off his stale cakes upon _you_, and that you will not keep
them when sent. You will then find that fresh ones will generally be
forthcoming. It is always well to send for cakes in the early part of
the afternoon.

Have a pitcher of ice-water on the side-table, and a tumbler beside
every plate--as most persons like to finish with a glass of water.

Do not, on sitting down to table, inform your guest that "you make no
stranger of her," or that you fear she will not be able to "make out" at
your plain table. These apologies are ungenteel and foolish. If your
circumstances will not allow you _on any consideration_ to make a little
improvement in your usual family-fare, your friend is, in all
probability, aware of the fact, and will not wish or expect you to incur
any inconvenient expense on her account. But if you are known to possess
the means of living well, you ought to do so; and to consider a good,
though not an extravagantly luxurious table as a necessary part of your
expenditure. There is a vast difference between laudable economy and
mean economy. The latter (whether it shows itself in bad food, bad
fires, bad lights, bad servants) is never excused in persons who dress
extravagantly, and live surrounded by costly furniture, and who are
universally known to be wealthy, and fully able to afford comfort, as
well as show.

If you invite a friend to tea, in whose own family there is no
gentlemen, or no man-servant, it is your duty previously to ascertain
that you can provide her on that evening with an escort home; and in
giving the invitation, you should tell her so, that she may know on what
to depend. If you keep a carriage, it will be most kind to send her home
in it.

Even if it is your rule to have the entry-lamp extinguished at a certain
hour, let your servants understand that this rule must be dispensed
with, as long as an evening-visiter remains in the house. Also, do not
have the linen covers put on the furniture, and the house audibly shut
up for the night, before she has gone. To do this is rude, because she
cannot but receive it as a hint that she has staid too long.

If your visiter is obliged to go home with no other escort than your
servant-man, apprize him, in time, that this duty will be expected of
him; desiring that he takes care to be at hand before ten o'clock.

A lady that has no escort whose services she can command, ought not to
make unexpected tea-visits. In many cases these visits produce more
inconvenience than pleasure. If you wish to "take tea sociably" with a
friend, inform her previously of your intention. She will then let you
know if she is disengaged on that evening, or if it is in any way
inconvenient to receive you; and she will herself appoint another time.
Generally, it is best not to volunteer a tea-visit, but to wait till
invited.

If you are engaged to take tea with an intimate friend, who assures you
that you will see none but the family; and you afterward receive an
invitation to join a party to a place of public amusement, which you
have long been desirous of visiting, you may retract your first
engagement, provided you send an apology in due time, telling the exact
truth, and telling it in polite terms. Your intimate friend will then
take no offence, considering it perfectly natural that you should prefer
the concert, the play, or the exhibition, to a quiet evening passed at
her house with no other guests. But take care to let her know as early
as possible.[2] And be careful not to disappoint her again in a similar
manner.

If you are accustomed to taking coffee in the evening, and have an
insuperable dislike to tea, it is best not to make an _unexpected_
visit--or at least, if you go at all, go early--so as to allow ample
time for the making of coffee--a much slower process than that of tea;
particularly as there may chance to be no roasted coffee in the house.
Much inconvenience has been caused by the "sociable visiting" of
determined coffee-drinkers. It is very easy to make green or black tea
at a short notice--but not coffee.

In inviting "a few friends," which means a small select company,
endeavour to assort them suitably, so as not to bring together people
who have no community of tastes, feelings, and ideas. If you mix the
dull and stupid with the bright and animated, the cold and formal with
the frank and lively, the professedly serious with the gay and cheerful,
the light with the heavy, and above all, those who pride themselves on
high birth (high birth in America?) with those who boast of "belonging
to the people," none of these "few friends" will enjoy each other's
society; the evening will _not_ go off agreeably, and you and the other
members of your family will have the worst of it. The pleasantest people
in the room will naturally congregate together, and the task of
entertaining the unentertainable will devolve on yourself and your own
people.

Still, it is difficult always to assort your company to your
satisfaction and theirs. A very charming lady may have very dull or very
silly sisters. An intelligent and refined daughter may be unfortunate in
a coarse, ignorant mother, or a prosing, tiresome, purse-proud father.
Some of the most delighted persons you may wish to invite, may be
encumbered with relations totally incapable of adding any thing to the
pleasure of the evening;--for instance, the numerous automatons, whom we
must charitably believe are speechless merely from diffidence, and of
whom we are told, that "if we only knew them," we should discover them,
on intimate acquaintance, to be "quite intelligent people." Perhaps so.
But we cannot help thinking that when a head is full of ideas, some of
them will involuntarily ooze out and be manifest. Diffidence is very
becoming to young people, and to those who are new to the world. But it
is hardly credible that it should produce a painful taciturnity in
persons who have passed from youth into maturity; and who have enjoyed
the advantages of education and of living in good society. Still those
who, as the French say, have "a great talent for silence," may redeem
themselves from suspicion of stupidity, by listening attentively and
understandingly. A good talker is never displeased with a good hearer.

We have often met with young ladies from whom it was scarcely possible
for one of their own sex to extract more than a few monosyllables at
long intervals; those intervals being passed in dozing, rather than in
hearing. And yet, if any thing in the shape of a beau presented itself,
the tongues of these "dumb belles" were immediately loosened, and the
wells of their minds commenced running as glibly as possible. To be
sure, the talk amounted to nothing definite; but still they _did_ talk,
and often became quite lively in a few minutes. Great is the power of
beaux!

To return to the tea-table.--Unless you are positively sure, when you
have a visiter, that she drinks the same tea that is used in your own
family, you should have both black and green on the table. Either sort
is often extremely disagreeable to persons who take the other. Drinkers
of green tea, for instance, have generally an unconquerable aversion to
black, as tasting like hay, herbs, &c., and they find in it no
refreshing or exhilarating property. In some, it produces nausea. Few,
on the other hand, dislike the taste of _good_ green tea, but they
assign as a reason for not drinking it, that it is supposed from its
enlivening qualities to affect the nerves. Judge Bushrod Washington, who
always drank green, and avoided black, said that, "he took tea as a
beverage, not as a medicine." And there are a vast number of sensible
people in the same category. If your guest is a votary of green tea,
have it made for her, in time for the essence of the leaves to be well
drawn forth. It is no compliment to give her green tea that is weak and
washy. And do not, at your own table, be so rude as to lecture her upon
the superior wholesomeness of black tea. For more than a century, green
tea was universally drunk in every house, and there was then less talk
of nervous diseases than during the reign of Souchong,--which,
by-the-bye, is nearly exploded in the best European society.

In pouring out, do not fill the cups to the brim. Always send the cream
and sugar round, that each person may use those articles according to
their own taste. Also, send round a small pot of hot water, that those
who like their tea weak may conveniently dilute it. If tea is handed, a
servant should, at the last, carry round a water-pitcher and glasses.

Whether at dinner or tea, if yourself and family are in the habit of
eating fast, (which, by the way, is a very bad and unwholesome one, and
justly cited against us by our English cousins,) and you see that your
visiter takes her food deliberately, endeavour (for that time at least)
to check the rapidity of your own mastication, so as not to finish
before she has done, and thus compel her to hurry herself uncomfortably,
or be left alone while every one round her is sitting unoccupied and
impatient. Or rather, let the family eat a little more than usual, or
seem to do so, out of politeness to their guest.

When refreshments are brought in after tea, let them be placed on the
centre-table, and handed round from thence by the gentlemen to the
ladies. If there are only four or five persons present, it may be more
convenient for all to sit round the table--which should not be cleared
till after all the visiters have gone, that the things may again be
offered before the departure of the guests.

If a friend makes an afternoon call, and you wish her to stay and take
tea, invite her to do so at once, as soon as she has sat down; and do
not wait till she has risen to depart. If she consents to stay, there
will then be ample time to make any additional preparation for tea that
may be expedient; and she will also know, at once, that you have no
engagement for the evening, and that she is not intruding on your time,
or preventing you from going out. If you are intimate friends, and your
guest is disposed to have a long chat, she will do well to ask you, at
the beginning, if you are disengaged, or design going out that
afternoon.

We knew a very sensible and agreeable lady in Philadelphia, who liking
better to have company at home than to go out herself, made a rule of
inviting every day, half a dozen friends (not more) to take tea with
her--just as many as could sit round the table, "with ample room and
verge enough." These friends she assorted judiciously. And therefore she
never asked a whole family at once; those who were left out
understanding that they would be invited another time. For instance, she
would send a note for the father and mother only--to meet another father
and mother or two. A few weeks after, a billet would come for the young
people only. But if there were _several_ young people, some were
delayed--thus--"I wish James and Eliza to take tea with me this evening,
to meet so-and-so. Another time I promise myself the pleasure of
Edward's company, and Mary's."

This distribution of invitations never gave offence.

Those who were honoured with the acquaintance of such a lady were not
likely to be displeased at so sensible a mode of receiving them. These
little tea-drinkings were always pleasant, and often delightful. The
hostess was well qualified to make them so.

Though the refreshments were of the best kind, and in sufficient
abundance, and the fires, lights, &c. all as they should be, there was
no ostentatious display, and the ladies were dressed no more than if
they were spending a quiet evening at home--party-finery being
interdicted--also, such needle-work as required constant attention to
every stitch.

If you have a friend who is in somewhat precarious health, and who is
afraid of being out in the night air, or who lives in a distant part of
the town, invite her to dinner, or to pass the day, rather than to tea.
She will then be able to get home before twilight.

There is in Boston a very fashionable and very distinguished lady, who,
since her return from Europe, has relinquished the custom of giving
large parties; and now entertains her friends by, almost every day,
having two or three to dine with her,--by invitation. These dinners are
charming. The hour is according to the season--earlier in winter, later
in summer--the guests departing before dark, and the lady always having
the evening to herself.

We know a gentleman in Philadelphia, who every Monday has a family-dinner
at his house, for all his children and grandchildren, who there meet and
enjoy themselves before the eyes of the father and mother--a friend or
two being also invited. Nothing can be more pleasant than to see them all
there together, none staying away,--for parents, children, sons-in-law,
daughters-in-law, sisters-in-law, brothers-in-law, are all at peace, and
all meeting in friendship--unhappily, a rare case, where there is a large
connection, and considerable wealth.

We wish that social intercourse was more frequently conducted on the
plan of the few examples above cited.

Should chance-visiters come in before the family have gone to tea, let
them at once be invited to partake of that repast; which they will of
course decline, if they have had tea already. In a well-provided house,
there can be no difficulty in adding something to the family tea-table,
which, in genteel life, should never be discreditably parsimonious.

It is a very mean practice, for the members of the family to slip out of
the parlour, one by one at a time, and steal away into the eating-room,
to avoid inviting their visiter to accompany them. The truth is always
suspected by these separate exits, and the length of absence from the
parlour--and is frequently betrayed by the rattle of china, and the
pervading fumes of hot cakes. How much better to meet the inconvenience
(and it cannot be a great one) by decently conducting your accidental
guest to the table, unless he says he has already taken tea, and will
amuse himself with a book while the family are at theirs.

Casual evening visiters should avoid staying too late. Ten o'clock, in
our country, is the usual time to depart, or at least to begin
departing. If the visit is unduly prolonged, there may be evident signs
of irrepressible drowsiness in the heads of the family, which, when
perceived, will annoy the guest, who must then feel that he has stayed
too long--and without being able to excuse himself with any approach to
the elegance of William Spencer's apology to the charming Lady Anne
Hamilton.

    Too late I stay'd--forgive the crime;
      Unheeded flew the hours,
    For noiseless falls the foot of Time
      That only treads on flowers.
    Ah! who with clear account remarks
      The ebbing of the glass,
    When all its sands are diamond sparks,
      That dazzle as they pass!

 Where the city-post is to be depended on, a note can always be sent
in that way.



THE ENTRÉE.


A lady is said to have the _entrée_ of her friend's room, when she is
allowed or assumes the privilege of entering it familiarly at all times,
and without any previous intimation--a privilege too often abused. In
many cases, the visited person has never really granted this privilege,
(and after growing wise by experience, she rarely will;) but the
visiter, assuming that she herself must, under all circumstances, be
welcome, carries her sociability so far as to become troublesome and
inconvenient. Consequently, their friendship begins to abate in its
warmth. No one likes to be annoyed, or be intruded on at all hours. So
the visited begins to think of the adage, "My room is my castle," and
the visiter finds that seeing a friend under all circumstances somewhat
diminishes respect, and that "familiarity brings contempt."

There are few occasions on which it is well, on entering a house, to run
directly to the chamber of your friend, and to bolt into her room
without knocking; or the very instant _after_ knocking, before she has
time to desire you to enter, or to make the slightest arrangement for
your reception. You may find her washing, or dressing, or in bed, or
even engaged in repairing clothes,--or the room may be in great
disorder, or the chambermaid in the act of cleaning it. No one likes
unseasonable interruptions, even from a very dear friend. That friend
would be dearer still, if she had sufficient tact and consideration to
refrain from causing these annoyances. Also, friendships are not always
lasting--particularly those that become inordinately violent, and where
both parties, by their excessive intimacy, put themselves too much into
each other's power. Very mortifying disclosures are sometimes made after
a quarrel, between two Hermias and Helenas, when recrimination begins to
come, and mutual enmity takes the place of mutual kindness.

A familiar visit will always begin more pleasantly, if the visiter
enquires of the servant at the door if the lady she wishes to see is at
home, and then goes into the parlour, and stays there till she has sent
her name, and ascertained that she can be received up-stairs.[3] Then
(and not till then) let her go to her friend's room, and still remember
to knock at the door before she enters. Let her have patience till her
friend bids her come in, or has time to rise, cross the room, and come
to open the door, if it is fastened.

It is extremely rude, on being admitted to a private apartment, to look
curiously about, as if taking an inventory of all that is to be seen. We
have known ladies whose eyes were all the time gazing round, and even
slily peering under tables, sofas, &c.; turning their heads to look
after every person who chanced to be moving about the room, and giving
particular attention to whatever seemed to be in disorder or out of
place. Nay, we have known one who prided herself upon the gentility of
her forefathers and foremothers, rise from her seat when her hostess
opened a bureau-drawer, or a closet-door, and cross the room, to stand
by and inspect the contents of said bureau or closet, while open--a
practice very common with ill-taught _children_, but which certainly
should be rebuked out of them long before they are grown up.

Make no remark upon the work in which you find your friend engaged. If
she lays it aside, desire her not to quit it because of your presence;
but propound no questions concerning it. Do not look over her books, and
ask to borrow them. In short, meddle with nothing.

Some ladies never enter the room of an intimate friend without
immediately exclaiming against its heat or its cold--seldom the latter,
but very frequently the former, as it is rather fashionable to be always
too warm; perhaps because it makes them seem younger. If they really are
uncomfortably warm on a very cold day, we think it can only be from the
glow produced by the exercise of walking. This glow must naturally
subside in a few minutes, if they would sit down and wait with a little
patience, or else avail themselves of the fan which ought to be at hand
in every room. We have known ladies of this warm temperament, who had
sufficient consideration always to carry a pocket-fan in winter as well
as summer. This is far better than to break out instantly with a
complaint of the heat of the room, or to run and throw up a window-sash,
or fling open the door, at the risk of giving cold to others. No
intimacy can authorize these freedoms in a cold day, unless permission
has first been asked, and sincerely granted.

If you are perfectly certain that you have really the entrée of your
friend's room, and even if she has the same of yours, you have no right
ever to extend that privilege to any other person who may chance to be
with you when you go to see her. It is taking an unjustifiable liberty
to intrude a stranger upon the privacy of her chamber. If another lady
is with you, waive your privilege of entrée for that time, take your
companion into the parlour, and send up the names of both, and do not
say, "Oh! come up, come up--I am on no ceremony with her, and I am sure
she will not _mind you_." And how can you be sure? Perhaps in reality,
she _will_ mind her very much, and be greatly discomfited, though too
polite to appear so.

There are certain unoccupied females so over-friendly as to take the
entrée of the whole house. These are, generally, ultra-neighbourly
neighbours, who run in at all hours of the day and evening; ferret out
the ladies of the family, wherever they may be--up-stairs or down; watch
all their proceedings when engaged, like good housewives, in inspecting
the attics, the store-rooms, the cellars, or the kitchens. Never for a
moment do they seem to suppose that their hourly visits may perhaps be
inconvenient or unseasonable; or too selfish to abate their frequency,
even when they suspect them to be so, these inveterate sociablists make
their incursions at all avenues. If they find that the front-door is
kept locked, they glide down the area-steps, and get in through the
basement. Or else, they discover some back-entrance, by which they can
slip in at "the postern-gate"--that is, alley-wise:--sociablists are not
proud. At first, the sociablist will say, on making her third or fourth
appearance for the day, "Who comes to see you oftener than I?" But after
awhile even this faint shadow of an apology is omitted--or changed to
"Nobody minds _me_." She is quite domesticated in your house--an
absolute _habitué_. She sees all, hears all, knows all your concerns. Of
course she does. Her talk _to_ you is chiefly gossip, and therefore her
talk _about_ you is chiefly the same. She is _au-fait_ of every thing
concerning your table, for after she has had her dinner at her own home,
she comes bolting into your dining-room and "sits by," and sees you eat
yours. It is well if she does not begin with "a look in" upon you before
breakfast. She finds out everybody that comes to your house; knows all
your plans for going to this place or that; is well acquainted with
every article that you wear; is present at the visits of all your
friends, and hears all their conversation. Her own is usually "an
infinite deal of nothing."

A sociablist is commonly what is called good-natured, or else you would
not endure her at all--and you believe, for a time, that she really has
an extraordinary liking for you. After awhile, you are undeceived. A
coolness ensues, if not a quarrel, and you are glad to find that she
carries her sociability to another market, and that a new friend is now
suffering all that you have experienced. To avoid the danger of being
overwhelmed by the sociability of an idle neighbour, discourage the
first indications of undue intimacy, by making your own visits rather
few, and rather far between. A young lady of good sense, and of proper
self-respect, will never be too lavish of her society; and if she has
pleasant neighbours, will visit them always in moderation. And their
friendship will last the longer.

If the visiter has been properly announced, a well-trained servant
will, in all probability, run up before her, and open the room-door.




INTRODUCTIONS.


Fashion, in its various unmeaning freaks, sometimes decrees that it is
not "stylish to introduce strangers." But this is a whim that, whenever
attempted, has neither become general nor lasted long. It has seldom
been adopted by persons of good sense and good manners--and very rarely
by that fortunate class whose elevated standing in society enables them
to act as they please, in throwing aside the fetters of absurd
conventionalities, and who can afford to do so.

Non-introduction has been found, in many instances, to produce both
inconvenience and vexation. Persons who had long known each other by
reputation, and who would have rejoiced in an opportunity of becoming
personally acquainted, have met in society, without being aware of it
till afterward; and the opportunity has never recurred. One of our most
distinguished literary Americans was seated at a dinner-party next to an
European lady equally distinguished in literature; but as there were no
introductions, he was not aware of her presence till the party was over
and the lady gone. The lady knew who the gentleman was, and would gladly
have conversed with him; but as he did not speak, because he was not
introduced, she had not courage to commence--though she might have done
so with perfect propriety, considering who _he_ was, and who _she_ was.

Still worse--from not knowing who are present, you may inadvertently
fall upon a subject of conversation that, for private reasons, may be
extremely irksome or painful to some of the company; for instance, in
discussing a public character. Severe or mortifying remarks may
unintentionally be made on the near relative, or on the intimate
companion, of one whom you would on no account desire to offend. And in
this way you may make enemies, where, under other circumstances, you
would have made friends. In such cases, it is the duty of the hostess,
or of any mutual acquaintance, immediately to introduce both parties,
and thus prevent any further animadversions that, may be _mal-a-propos_,
or in any way annoying. It is safest, when among strangers, to refrain
from bitter animadversions on anybody.

In introducing a gentleman to a lady, address _her_ first, as for
instance--"Miss Smith, permit me to make you acquainted with Mr.
Jones"--or, "Mrs. Farley, allow me to present Mr. Wilson"--that is, you
must introduce the gentleman to the lady, rather than the lady to the
gentleman. Also, if one lady is married and the other single, present
the single lady to the matron, as--"Miss Thomson, let me introduce you
to Mrs. Williams."[4]

In introducing a foreigner, it is proper to present him as "Mr. Howard
from England"--"Mr. Dupont from France"--"Mr. Wenzel from Germany." If
you know of what European city he is a resident, it is better still, to
say that he is "from London,"--"Paris,"--"Hamburg." Likewise, in
introducing one of your own countrymen very recently returned from a
distant part of the world, make him known as "Mr. Davis, just from
China"--"Mr. Edwards, lately from Spain"--"Mr. Gordon, recently from
South America." These slight specifications are easily made; and they
afford, at once, an opening for conversation between the two strangers,
as it will be perfectly natural to ask "the late arrived" something
about the country he has last visited, or at least about his voyage.

When presenting a member of Congress, mention the State to which he
belongs, as, "Mr. Hunter of Virginia"--"Mr. Chase of Ohio," &c.
Recollect that both senators and gentlemen of the house of
representatives are members of Congress--Congress including the two
legislative bodies. In introducing a governor, designate the state he
governs--as, "Governor Penington of New Jersey." For the chief
magistrate of the republic, say simply--"The President."

In introducing an officer, tell always to which service he belongs--as
"Captain Turner of the Navy"--"Captain Anderson of the Army."

We regret the custom of continuing to give military titles to militia
officers. Foreigners are justly diverted at finding _soi-disant_
generals and colonels among men who fill very subordinate stations in
civil life--men that, however respectable in their characters, may be
deficient in the appearance, manners, or education that should belong to
a regular officer. This foolish practice can only be done away by the
militia officers themselves (those that really are gentlemen--and there
are many) magnanimously declining to be called generals, colonels, &c.
except on parade occasions; and when actually engaged in militia duty.
Let them omit these titles on their cards, and request that no letters
be directed to them with such superscriptions; and that in introductions
or in conversation they may be only addressed as plain Mr. It is still
more absurd to continue these military titles long after they have
ceased to hold the office,--and above all, to persist in them when
travelling in foreign countries, tacitly permitting it to be supposed
that they own commissions in the regular service.

English tourists (even when they know better) make this practice a
handle for pretending, in their books, that the officers of the American
army are so badly paid, or so eager to make additional money, that they
exercise all sorts of trades, and engage in the humblest occupations to
help themselves along. They tell of seeing a captain stitching coats, a
major making shoes, a colonel driving a stage, and a general selling
butter in market--sneeringly representing them as regular officers of
the United States army. Is it true that we republicans have such a
hankering after titles? If so, "reform it altogether." And let one of
the first steps be to omit the "Esq." in directing a letter to an
American citizen, for whom the title can have no meaning. In England it
signifies the possessor of an estate in the country, including the
office of justice of peace. In America, it means a magistrate only; who
may live in a city, and own not an inch of ground anywhere. But why
should all manner of men, of all trades, and professions, expect to see
an "Esq." after their name, when with reference to _them_, it can have
no rational application?

An introduction should always be given in a distinct and audible voice,
so that the name may be clearly understood. The purpose is defeated, if
it is murmured over in so low a tone as to be unintelligible. And yet
how often is this the case; for what reason it is difficult to divine.
It is usual for the introducee to repeat the name of the introduced.
This will prove that it has really been heard. For instance, if Mrs.
Smith presents Miss Brook to Miss Miles, Miss Miles immediately says,
"Miss Brook"--or better still--"Miss Brook, I am glad to meet you," or
something similar. Miss Miles then begins a talk.

If you introduce yourself to a lady whom you wish to know, but who does
not know _you_, address her by her name, express your desire to make her
acquaintance, and then give her your card. Replying that it affords her
pleasure to meet you, she will give you her hand, and commence a
conversation, so as to put you quite at ease after your
self-introduction.

In introducing members of your own family, always mention, audibly, the
name. It is not sufficient to say "my father," or "my mother"--"my son,"
"my daughter"--"my brother," or "my sister." There may be more than one
surname in the same family. But say, "my father, Mr. Warton,"--"my
daughter, Miss Wood"--or "my daughter-in-law, Mrs. Wood"--"my sister,
Miss Mary Ramsay"--"my brother, Mr. James Ramsay," &c. It is best in all
these things to be explicit. The eldest daughter is usually introduced
by her surname only--as "Miss Bradford"--her younger sisters, as "Miss
Maria Bradford"--"Miss Harriet Bradford."

In presenting a clergyman, put the word "Reverend" before his
name--unless he is a bishop, and then, of course, the word "Bishop"
suffices. The head of a college-department introduce as "Professor"--and
it is to them only that the title properly belongs, though arrogated by
all sorts of public exhibitors, mesmerists and jugglers included.

Where the company is large, the ladies of the house should have tact
enough to avoid introducing and placing together persons who cannot
possibly assimilate, or take pleasure in each other's society. The dull,
and the silly, will be far happier with their compeers. To a woman of
talent, and a good conversationist, it is a cruelty to put her
unnecessarily in contact with stupid, or unmeaning people. She is wasted
and thrown away upon such as are neither amusing nor amusable. Neither
is it well to bring together a gay, lively woman of the world, and a
solemn, serious, repulsive dame, who is a contemner of the world and all
its enjoyments. There can be no conversation that is mutually agreeable,
between a real lady of true delicacy and refinement, and a so-called
lady whose behaviour and talk are coarse and vulgar,--or between a woman
of highly cultivated mind, and one who is grossly ignorant of every
thing connected with books, and who boasts of that ignorance. We have
heard a lady of fashion say, "Thank God, I never read." The answer might
well have been, "You need not tell us that."

In inviting but a small company, it is indispensable to the pleasure of
all, that you ask none who are strikingly unsuitable to the rest--or
whose presence will throw a damp on conversation. Especially avoid
bringing into the same room, persons who are at notorious enmity with
each other, even if, unhappily, they should be members of the same
family. Those who are known as adversaries should be invited on
different evenings.

Avoid giving invitations to bores. They will come without.

The word "bore" has an unpleasant and an inelegant sound. Still, we have
not, as yet, found any substitute that so well expresses the
meaning,--which, we opine, is a dull, tiresome man, or "a weariful
woman," either inveterately silent, or inordinately talkative, but never
saying any thing worth hearing, or worth remembering--people whom you
receive unwillingly, and whom you take leave of with joy; and who, not
having perception enough to know that their visits are always unwelcome,
are the most sociable visiters imaginable, and the longest stayers.

In a conversation at Abbotsford, there chanced to be something said in
reference to bores--those beings in whom "man delights not, nor woman
neither." Sir Walter Scott asserted, humourously, that bores were always
"good respectable people." "Otherwise," said he "there could be no
bores. For if they were also scoundrels or brutes, we would keep no
measures with them, but at once kick them out the house, and shut the
door in their faces."

When you wish an introduction to a stranger lady, apply to your hostess,
or to some of the family, or to one of the guests that is acquainted
with that lady: you will then be led up and presented to her. Do not
expect the stranger to be brought to you; it is your place to go to her.

If you are requested by a female friend to introduce her to a
distinguished gentleman, a public character, be not so ungenerous as to
go _immediately_ and conspicuously to inform him of the fact. But spare
her delicacy, by deferring the ceremony for a while; and then take an
opportunity of saying to him, "I shall be glad to make you acquainted
with my friend Miss Morris. Come with me, and I will introduce you."
When the introduction has thus taken place, you may with propriety leave
them together to entertain each other for awhile; particularly if both
parties are capable of doing so. And then, after a quarter of an hour's
conversation, let the lady release the gentleman from further
attendance, by bowing to him, and turning to some other acquaintance who
may not be far off. She can leave _him_ much more easily than he can
leave _her_, and it will be better to do so in proper time, than to
detain him too long. It is generally in his power to return to her
before the close of the evening, and if he is pleased with her society,
he will probably make an opportunity of doing so.

If he is what is called a lion, consideration for the rest of the
company should admonish her not to monopolize him. But lions usually
know how to get away adroitly. By-the-bye, she must not talk to him of
his professional celebrity, or ask him at once for his autograph.

We saw no less a person than Charles Dickens compelled, at a large
party, to devote the whole evening to writing autographs for a multitude
of young ladies--many of whom, not satisfied with obtaining one of his
signatures for themselves, desired half a dozen others for "absent
friends." All conversation ceased with the first requisition for an
autograph. He had no chance of saying any thing. We were a little
ashamed of our fair townswomen.

Should it fall to your lot to introduce any of the English nobility,
take care (before hand) to inform yourself exactly what their titles
really are. Americans are liable to make sad blunders in these things.
It may be well to know that a duke is the highest title of British
nobility, and that his wife is a duchess. His eldest son is a marquis as
long as his father lives, on whose demise the marquis becomes a duke.
The wife of a marquis is a marchioness. There are a few marquises whose
fathers were not dukes. The younger sons are termed Lord Henry, Lord
Charles, Lord John, &c. The daughters Lady Caroline, Lady Augusta, Lady
Julia. The family name is generally quite different from the title.
Thus, the name of the Duke of Richmond is Lenox--that of the Duke of
Rutland, Manners. The family name of the Duke of Norfolk (who ranks
first of the English nobility) is Howard. The present Duke of
Northumberland's name is Algernon Percy. Arthur Wellesley was that of
the great Duke of Wellington. His eldest son was Marquis of Douro, and
his second son Lord Charles Wellesley. The children of a marquis are
called Lord Frederick, or Lord Henry, and Lady Louisa, or Lady Harriet.

The next title is viscount, as Viscount Palmerston. The next is earl,
whose wife is a countess, and the children may be Lord Georges and Lady
Marys.

After the viscounts come the barons, whose children are denominated the
Honourable Miss, or Mr. John Singleton Copley, (whose father was Copley,
the celebrated American painter,) is now Baron Lyndhurst. His eldest
daughter is the Hon. Miss Copley. In common parlance, barons are always
termed lords. Some few have two titles--as Lord Say and Sele--Lord
Brougham and Vaux. After William the Fourth had suddenly dissolved the
parliament that held out so long against passing the reform bill, and
the king, appointing a new cabinet, had placed Lord Brougham at the head
of the ministry, a ridiculous comic song came out at one of the minor
theatres, implying that now his majesty has swept out the whole
parliament, "he takes up his broom and valks," (Brougham and Vaux.)

When the widow of a nobleman marries a man who has no title, she always
retains hers. Thus when the widow of the Earl of Mansfield married
Colonel Greville, (a nephew of the Earl of Warwick,)--on their
door-plate the names were--"The Countess Dowager of Mansfield, and the
Hon. Colonel Greville,"--a rather long inscription. A nobleman's
daughter marrying a commoner, retains her original title of Lady, but
takes his surname--thus, Lady Charlotte Campbell, whose father was Duke
of Argyle, became, on her marriage with Dr. Bury, a clergyman, Lady
Charlotte Bury. It will be understood that if a nobleman's daughter
marries a nobleman, her title merges in his--but if she marries a
commoner, she retains what title she had originally--her husband, of
course, obtaining no rank by his marriage.

The title of a baronet is Sir--as Sir Francis Burdett, Sir Walter Scott.
His children are Mr. and Miss, without any "Hon." affixed to their
names. Baronets are a grade below barons, but the title is hereditary,
descending to the eldest son or next male heir. In directing to a
baronet, put "Bart." after his name. A knight is also called Sir, as Sir
Thomas Lawrence, Sir Edwin Landseer, &c.; but his title being only for
life, dies with him.[5] It is always conferred by the sovereign touching
his shoulder with a sword, and saying, for instance, "Rise up, Sir
Francis Chantry." In writing to a knight, put "Knt." The wives of both
baronets and knights are called Lady. The wife of Sir John Franklin (who
was knighted) is Lady Franklin--not Lady _Jane_ Franklin, as has been
erroneously supposed. She could not be Lady Jane unless her father was a
nobleman.

A nobleman always signs his title only, without designating his exact
rank--the Duke of Athol signing himself "Athol"--the Duke of Bedford,
"Bedford"--the Marquis of Granby, "Granby"--the Earl of Chesterfield,
"Chesterfield," &c. The wives of peers give their Christian name with
their title--as Isabella Buccleuch--Margaret Northampton--Elizabeth
Derby, &c.

The English bishops are addressed in letters as the Lord Bishop of
Rochester, the Lord Bishop of Bath and Wells. The Archbishop of
Canterbury, who is Primate of England,--(Head of the English Church,) is
called His Grace, or Your Grace. The bishops are all (by virtue of their
office) members of the House of Peers or Lords. They sign their
Christian name with the title of their bishopric, as John
Durham--William Oxford.

All full noblemen have an hereditary seat in the House of Peers, which
they take on attaining the age of twenty-one, and it continues while
they live. Their younger sons, the Lord Johns and Lord Fredericks, can
only have a seat in the House of Commons, and to that they must be
elected, like the other members. Baronets, not being peers, must also be
elected as commons.

Americans going to England would do well to look over a book of the
British Peerage, so as to save themselves from making blunders, which
are much ridiculed in a country where little allowance is made for
republican habits and for republican ignorance of what appertains to
monarchical institutions.[6] It would not be amiss even to know that a
full coat of arms, including shield, supporters, crest, and scroll with
a motto, belongs only to the chief of a noble family; and that the
younger branches are entitled only to the crest, which is the head of
the same animal that stands erect on each side of the shield as if to
support it, such as stags, foxes, bears, vultures, &c. A baronet has a
shield only, with a bloody or wounded hand over the top.

Our countrymen abroad sometimes excite ill-concealed mirth, by the
lavish use they make of titles when they chance to find themselves among
the nobility. They should learn that none but servants or people of the
lower classes make constant use of the terms "my lord," and "my
lady"--"your lordship," or "your ladyship"--"your grace," &c., in
conversing with persons of rank. Formerly it was the custom, but it is
long since obsolete, except, as we have said, from domestics or
dependants. Address them simply as Lord Derby, or Lord Dunmore--Lady
Wilton, Lady Mornington, &c.

 It is well to present a lady or gentleman from another city, as
"Miss Ford of New York"--"Mrs. Stephens of Boston"--"Mr. Warren of New
Orleans."

 Distinguished men of all professions, doctors, lawyers, artists,
authors, and officers of the army and navy, frequently receive the
honour of knighthood.

 It would be well if all the public offices at Washington were
furnished with copies of the British Peerage. Perhaps they are.






CONDUCT IN THE STREET.


When three ladies are walking together, it is better for one to keep a
little in advance of the other two, than for all three to persist in
maintaining one unbroken line. They cannot all join in conversation
without talking across each other--a thing that, in-doors or
out-of-doors, is awkward, inconvenient, ungenteel, and should always be
avoided. Also, three ladies walking abreast occupy too much of the
pavement, and therefore incommode the other passengers. Three young
_men_ sometimes lounge along the pavement, arm in arm. Three young
_gentlemen_ never do so.

If you meet a lady with whom you have become but slightly acquainted,
and had merely a little conversation, (for instance, at a party or a
morning visit,) and who moves in a circle somewhat higher or more
fashionable than your own, it is safest to wait till she recognises you.
Let her not see in you a disposition to obtrude yourself on her notice.

It is not expected that all intimacies formed at watering-places shall
continue after the parties have returned to their homes. A mutual bow
when meeting in the street is sufficient. But there is no interchanging
of visits, unless both ladies have, before parting, testified a desire
to continue the acquaintance. In this case, the lady who is eldest, or
palpably highest in station, makes the first call. It is not customary
for a young lady to make the first visit to a married lady.

When meeting them in the street, always speak first to your milliner,
mantua-maker, seamstress, or to any one you have been in the practice of
employing. To pass without notice any servant that you know, is rude and
unfeeling, as they will attribute it to pride, not presuming to speak to
you themselves, unless in reply. There are persons who having accepted,
when in the country, much kindness from the country-people, are ashamed
to recognise them when they come to town, on account of their rustic or
unfashionable dress. This is a very vulgar, contemptible, and foolish
pride; and is always seen through, and despised. There is no danger of
plain country-people being mistaken for vulgar city-people. In our
country, there is no reason for keeping aloof from any who are
respectable in character and appearance. Those to be avoided are such as
wear tawdry finery, paint their faces, and leer out of the corners of
their eyes, _looking_ disreputably, even if they are not disreputable
in reality.

When a gentleman meets a lady with whom his acquaintance is very slight,
(perhaps nothing more than a few words of talk at a party,) he allows
her the option of continuing the acquaintance or not, at her pleasure;
therefore, he waits till she recognises him, and till she evinces it by
a bow,--he looking at her to give the opportunity. Thus, if she has no
objection to numbering him among her acquaintances, she denotes it by
bowing first. American ladies never curtsey in the street. If she has
any reason to disapprove of his character or habits, she is perfectly
justifiable in "cutting" him, as it is termed. Let her bow very coldly
the first time, and after that, not at all.

Young ladies should yield the wall to old ladies. Gentlemen do so to all
ladies.

In some cities it is the custom for all gentlemen to give their arm to
all ladies, when walking with them. In others, a gentleman's arm is
neither offered nor taken, unless in the evening, on slippery pavements,
or when the streets are very muddy. A lady only takes the arm of her
husband, her affianced lover, or of her male relatives. In the country
the custom is different. There, a gentleman, when walking with a lady,
always gives her his arm; and is much offended when, on offering his
arm, the lady refuses to take it. Still, if it is contrary to the custom
of her place, she can explain it to him delicately, and he will at once
see the propriety of her declining.

When a lady is walking between two gentlemen, she should divide her
conversation as equally as practicable, or address most of it to him who
is most of a stranger to her. He, with whom she is least on ceremony,
will excuse her.

A gentleman on escorting a lady to her own home, must not leave her till
he has rung the bell, and waited till the servant has come and opened
the door, and till she is actually in the house. Men who know no better,
think it sufficient to walk with her to the foot of the steps and there
take their departure, leaving her to get in as she can. This we have
seen--but not often, and the offenders were not Americans.

If you stop a few minutes in the street to talk to an acquaintance, draw
to one side of the pavement near the wall, so as not to impede the
passengers--or you may turn and walk with her as far as the next corner.
And never stop to talk in the middle of a crossing. To speak loudly in
the street is exceedingly ungenteel, and foolish, as what you say will
be heard by all who pass by. To call across the way to an acquaintance,
is very unlady-like. It is best to hasten over, and speak to her, if you
have any thing of importance to say.

When a stranger offers to assist you across a brimming gutter, or over a
puddle, or a glair of slippery ice, do not hesitate, or decline, as if
you thought he was taking an unwarrantable liberty. He means nothing but
civility. So accept it frankly, and thank him for it.

When you see persons slip down on the ice, do not laugh at them. There
is no fun in being hurt, or in being mortified by a fall in the public
street; and we know not how a _lady_ can see any thing diverting in so
painful a circumstance. It is more feminine, on witnessing such a sight,
to utter an involuntary scream than a shout of laughter. And still more
so, to stop and ascertain if the person that fell has been hurt.

If, on stopping an omnibus, you find that a dozen people are already
seated in it, draw back, and refuse to add to the number; giving no heed
to the assertion of the driver, that "there is plenty of room." The
_passengers_ will not say so, and you have no right to crowd them all,
even if you are willing to be crowded yourself--a thing that is
extremely uncomfortable, and very injurious to your dress, which may, in
consequence, be so squeezed and rumpled as never to look well again.
None of the omnibuses are large enough to accommodate even twelve grown
people _comfortably_; and that number is the utmost the law permits. A
child occupies more than half the space of a grown person, yet children
are brought into omnibuses _ad libitum_. Ten grown persons are as many
as can be really well seated in an omnibus--twelve are too many; and a
_lady_ will always regret making the thirteenth--and her want of
consideration in doing so will cause her to be regarded with
unfavourable eyes by the other passengers. It is better for her to go
into a shop, and wait for the next omnibus, or even to walk home, unless
it is actually raining.

Have your sixpence ready in your fingers a few minutes before you are to
get out; and you may request any gentleman near you to hand it up to
the driver. So many accidents have happened from the driver setting off
before a lady was entirely out of the vehicle and safely landed in the
street, that it is well to desire the gentleman not to hand up the
sixpence till after you are fairly clear of the steps.

When expecting to ride in an omnibus, take care to have sufficient small
change in your purse--that is, sixpences. We have seen, when a
quarter-dollar has been handed up, and the driver was handing down the
change, that it has fallen, and been scattered among the straw. There
was no stopping to search for it, and therefore the ride cost
twenty-five cents instead of six: the driver, of course, finding the
change himself, as soon as he got rid of all his passengers.

It is most imprudent to ride in an omnibus with much money in your
purse. Pickpockets of genteel appearance are too frequently among the
passengers. We know a gentleman who in this way lost a pocket-book
containing eighty dollars; and various ladies have had their purses
taken from them, by well-dressed passengers. If you are obliged to have
money of any consequence about you, keep your hand all the time in that
pocket.

If the driver allows a drunken man to come into an omnibus, the ladies
will find it best to get out; at least those whose seats are near his.
It is, however, the duty of the gentlemen to insist on such fellows
being refused admittance where there are ladies.

No lady should venture to ride in an omnibus after dark, unless she is
escorted by a gentleman whom she knows. She had better walk home, even
under the protection of a servant. If alone in an omnibus at night, she
is liable to meet with improper company, and perhaps be insulted.





SHOPPING.


When you go out shopping, it is well to take with you some _written_
cards, inscribed with your residence as well as your name. For this
purpose to use engraved visiting-cards is an unnecessary expense. That
there may be no mistake, let your shopping-cards contain not only your
street and number, but the side of the way, and between what streets
your house is situated. This minuteness is particularly useful in
Philadelphia, where the plan and aspect of the streets is so similar.
Much inconvenience, disappointment, and delay have resulted from parcels
being left at wrong places. If you are staying at a hotel, give also the
number of your chamber, otherwise the package may be carried in mistake
to the apartment of some other lady; the servants always knowing the
number of the rooms, but not always remembering the names of the
occupants; usually speaking of the ladies and gentlemen as No. 25, No.
42, &c.

There is another advantage in having cards with you when you go out
shopping: if you should chance to forget your reticule, or
handkerchief, and leave it on the counter, the shopkeeper will know
exactly by the card where to send it, or for whom to keep it till called
for.

If you intend to purchase none but small articles, take but little money
in your purse, so that if you chance to lose it, the loss may not be
great.[7] When you buy articles of any consequence, they will always be
sent home at your request--and (unless you keep a standing account at
that store) desire the bill to be sent along; and sent at an hour when
you will certainly be at hand to pay it. Be careful to take receipts for
the payment; and keep the receipts on a file or wire. We have known
instances when, from the clerk or storekeeper neglecting or delaying to
cross out an account as soon as paid, the same bill was inadvertently
sent twice over; and then by having the receipt to show, the necessity
of _paying it twice over_ was obviated. Look carefully at every item of
the bill, and see that all is correct. Sometimes (though these
oversights are of rare occurrence) the same article may accidentally be
set down twice in the same bill. But this is easily rectified by taking
the bill to the storekeeper, and showing it to him.

In subscribing for a magazine or newspaper, and paying in advance, (as
you always should,) be especially careful of the receipts given to you
at paying. So many persons are in the habit of allowing these accounts
to run on for years, that if you neglect preserving your receipts, and
cannot produce them afterward, you may be unintentionally classed among
the delinquents, and have no means of proving satisfactorily that you
have really paid.

Many ladies keep a day-book, in which they set down, regularly, all the
money they have expended on that day; adding up the whole every week. An
excellent plan, and of great importance to every one who is mistress of
a family.

In making purchases for other persons, have bills made out; and send the
bills (receipted) with the articles purchased, as an evidence of the
exact price of the things, and that they were paid for punctually. The
friends that have commissioned you to buy them, should _immediately_
repay you. Much inconvenience may be felt by a lady whose command of
money is small, when a friend living in a distant place, and probably in
opulent circumstances, neglects or postpones the payment of these sums.
She should, at the beginning, send money amply sufficient to make these
purchases. It is enough that you take the trouble of going to the
stores, selecting the desired articles, and having them packed and sent
off. She has no right to put you to the slightest pecuniary
inconvenience. There have been instances, where articles thus bought for
a lady in a far-off place, have not been paid for by that lady till
after the lapse of many months. For such remissness there is no excuse.
To go shopping for a friend is rarely a pleasant business. Besides its
encroaching on your time, there is always a danger of the purchases
proving unsatisfactory, or not suiting the taste of her for whom they
are intended. Also, circumstances may prevent the articles reaching her
as soon as expected. Whenever practicable, it is best to send all such
packages by the Transportation Line--that charge to be paid by the
owner, on delivery.

It is not well to trouble a gentleman with the care of a parcel, unless
it is quite small, and he has to pass the door of the house at which it
is to be delivered; or unless his residence is in the immediate
neighbourhood.

When visiting the shops, if you do not intend to buy at that time, but
are merely looking round to see varieties of articles before you
determine on what to purchase, candidly say so to the persons standing
at the counter. They will (particularly if they know you) be perfectly
willing to show you such things as you desire to see, in the hope that
you may return to their store and buy of them afterward. At the same
time, avoid giving unnecessary trouble; and do not, from mere curiosity,
desire such things to be brought to you as you have no intention of
buying at all.

The practice that is called cheapening, or beating down the price, is
now nearly obsolete. Most tradesmen have a fixed price for every thing,
and will not abate.

It is but rarely that you will meet with articles of really good quality
on very low terms, unless near the close of the season, when the
storekeepers, anxious to get rid of their old stock, generally put down
the prices of the goods that are left on hand; knowing that by the
return of next season, these will be superseded by things of a newer
fashion. Economical ladies, who are not resolutely determined on wearing
none but articles of the very latest fashion, may thus supply themselves
with excellent silks, lawns, &c. in August and September, at prices far
below what they would have given in May or June. And then they can lay
them by till next summer. In the same way they can purchase merinoes,
mousselines de laine, &c. in January, February, and March, much lower
than in November and December. It is best always to buy rather too much
than too little; and to have a piece left, rather than to get a scanty
pattern, such as will barely hold out, leaving nothing for repairs or
alterations. There is much advantage in getting an extra yard and a
half, or two yards, and keeping it back for new sleeves. Unless you are
small and slender, it is not well to buy a dress embroidered with a
border pattern. They are always scanty in width, and have that look when
made up. The skirts are never quite wide enough. A tall woman requires
as full a skirt as a fat one; else her height will make her look lanky
and narrow.

When bespeaking an article to be made purposely for you, ascertain from
the maker what will be the cost, and then request him to write down the
terms on a card, or a slip of paper, or on a leaf of your tablet. If he
says he cannot tell how much it will be, or that he knows not what price
to fix on it, or that he cannot decide till after it is finished, it
will be safest and wisest for you to decline engaging it, till he _has_
calculated the amount, or something very near it. Persist in this
condition being a _sine qua non_. It is his place to know every thing
connected with his business, and to be able to judge of his outlay, and
his profits. If you do not insist on a satisfactory answer when making
the bargain, you may in the end find yourself greatly overcharged, (as
we know by experience;) the price in the bill, after the article is
made, and sent home, proving infinitely higher than you would have been
willing to give if previously aware of it. In dealing with foreigners
whose language is not yours, take especial care that there is a correct
understanding on both sides.

When on a visit to a city with which you are not familiar, enquire where
the best shops are to be found, and make memorandums of them in your
tablets. This will spare your friends the trouble of accompanying you on
your shopping expeditions. And if you have a small pocket-map of the
town, there will be no danger of losing your way. Except to ladies whose
chief delight is in seeing things connected with dress, to go shopping
with a stranger is usually very tiresome. Also, the stranger will feel
less constraint by going alone; and more at liberty to be guided by her
own taste in selecting, and to consult her pecuniary convenience in
regard to the price. It is only when you feel that you have reason for
distrusting your own judgment, as to the quality and gentility of the
articles, that it is well to be accompanied by a person of more
experience. And then you will, most probably, be unwilling to fatigue
her by going to as many shops as you would like to visit. In most cases,
it is best to go shopping without any companion, except, perhaps, a
member of your immediate family. Gentlemen consider it a very irksome
task to go on shopping expeditions, and their ill-concealed impatience
becomes equally irksome to you.

If you have given the salesman or saleswoman unusual trouble in showing
you articles which you find not to suit, make some compensation, by at
least one or two small purchases before leaving the store; for instance,
linen to lay by as a body-lining for a future dress, gloves, mits, a
neck-ribbon, cotton spools, pins, needles, tape, black sewing-silk,
&c.,--things that will always come into use.

Remember that in all American stores, the rule of "first come, first
served," is rigidly observed. Therefore, testify no impatience if a
servant-girl, making a sixpenny purchase, is served before you--which
she certainly will be, if her entrance has preceded yours.

There are still some ladies who think that one of the great arts of
shopping, is to disparage the articles shown to them, to exclaim at the
price, and to assert that at other places they can get exactly such
things infinitely lower. When shopping, (as well as under all other
circumstances,) it is best to adhere to the truth. If you really like
the article, why not gratify the salesman by saying so. If you know that
the price is in conformity to the usual rate, you need not attempt to
get it lower, for you will seldom succeed--unless, indeed, on that day
the tradesman is particularly anxious to sell, having a sum of money to
make up, and being somewhat at a loss. Perhaps then, he may abate
something; but if he does not himself propose the abatement, and if he
is largely in business, and sure of plenty of custom, there will be
little use in your urging it.

If you are a stranger in the city, (Philadelphia for instance,) do not
always be exclaiming at the prices, and declaring that you can buy the
same articles much lower and much handsomer in New York, Boston, or
Baltimore. For certain reasons, prices are different in different
places. If an article is shown to you in Philadelphia as "something
quite new," refrain from saying that it has been out of fashion these
two years in New York. This may injure its sale with bystanders,
chancing to hear you. You need only say "that it is very pretty, but you
do not want it now."

It is strange, but no less strange than true, that though the distance
between New York and Philadelphia is reduced to less than half a day's
travel, it takes a year or more, for the New York fashions to get to
Philadelphia, and many of them never arrive at all. There are certain
dress-makers and milliners in the latter city, who, if you show them any
thing quite fresh from New York, will habitually reply, "Oh! we made
that, here in Philadelphia, a year or two ago." You need not believe
them. Our American ladies derive all their ideas of costume from France;
and as New York rejoices in the most extensive and the most speedy
intercourse with that land of taste and elegance, the French fashions
always get there first. The wonder is that so long a time elapses
before they prevail in the other cities. We must say, however, that
whatever is fantastic and extreme, is generally modified and softened
down in Philadelphia. In provincial towns, and in remote new
settlements, we often see a disposition to carry to the utmost a fashion
already too showy or gaudy.

When you see on another lady a new article of dress that you admire, it
is _not_ ill-manners, (but rather the contrary,) to tell her so. But
unless you really desire to get one exactly like it for yourself, and
are sincerely asking for information, it is considered very rude to
enquire where she bought it, and what was the cost. And it is peculiarly
vulgar to preface the enquiry by the foolish words--"If it is a fair
question." The very doubt proves that you know the question to be a very
unfair one. And so it is. We have never known that expression used
except to introduce something rude and improper. Any lady who is asked
an impertinent question, would be perfectly justifiable in saying,
"Excuse me from answering"--and then immediately changing the
conversation. Yet there are ladies who are always catechising others
about their dress. You are not bound to give explicit answers to these,
or any other questions concerning your personal affairs. Much mischief
accrues in society, from some ladies being too inquisitive, and others
too communicative.

It is really a great fatigue, both of body and mind, to go shopping with
a very close economist, particularly if you know that she can well
afford a sufficiently liberal expenditure. The length of time she will
ponder over every thing before she can "make up her mind;" the
ever-besetting fear that she may possibly have to give a few cents more
in one store than in another; her long deliberation as to whether a
smaller than the usual quantity may not be "made to do;" her
predilection for bargain-seeking in streets far off, and ungenteel; the
immense trouble she gives to the persons behind the counter,--all will
induce you to forswear trying a second time the experiment of attending
on the progress of a shopper who sets out with the vain expectation of
obtaining good articles at paltry prices.

In what are called "cheap shops," you will rarely find more than two or
three things that are really cheap. If of bad quality, they are not
_cheap_, but dear. Low-priced ribbons, for instance, are generally
flimsy, tawdry, of ugly figures, and vulgar colours,--soon fading, and
soon "getting into a string." Yet there are ladies who will walk two
miles to hustle in the crowd they find squeezing toward the counter of
the last new emporium of cheap ribbons; and, while waiting their turn,
have nothing to look at around them but lots of trash, that if they
bought they would be ashamed to wear. Coarse finery is trumpery.

On the other hand, for ladies of small means, it is not indispensable to
their standing in society, that they should deal only at stores noted
for selling _higher_ than the usual price. It is a very poor boast;
particularly when they cannot afford it.

Whatever may be the caprices of fashion, a lady of good taste (and we
may add, good sense,) will not, in buying dresses, select those of
large figures, and high glaring colours. There is something peculiarly
ungenteel and ungraceful in a white ground with large red flowers and
green leaves wandering over it. Even if the fabric is brocade, it has a
look of calico. Red and green is only beautiful in real flowers. In a
lady's dress, it somehow looks unlady-like. A great variety of bright
colours is only suited to a carpet. For a dress, two are quite
sufficient. And then if one is blue, pink, scarlet, or orange, let it be
contrasted with brown, gray, olive, or some chaste and quiet tint that
will set it off. Few silks are more becoming than those in which the
figure is formed by a darker shade of the same colour as the ground.
Silks of one colour only, trim the best--variegated trimming looks
confused and ineffective. No colours are more ungenteel, or in worse
taste, than reddish lilacs, reddish purples, and reddish browns. The
original tint of aronetta, or anatto, is the contempt of ladies; but by
previously washing the article in strong, warm pot-ash water, before it
is put into the solution of aronetta, you will obtain a beautiful
bird-of-paradise colour, entirely free from all appearance of the
unpopular powder.

Buy no silk that is stiff and hard, however thick and heavy it may seem.
It will crack and split, and wear worse than a soft silk that appears
much thinner. Venture on no satin that is not of excellent quality. A
thin satin frays and ravels, and is not worth making up. For common
wear, a soft, thick India silk is generally excellent. We have never
seen a _good one_ for less than a dollar a yard. The figured or
embossed India silks are not worth buying,--wearing rough and fuzzy, and
fraying all over. For a serviceable, long-lasting home dress, there is
nothing equal to a very thick, soft, double-width India black satin,
such as is called two yards wide, and sells at two dollars a yard. But
they have become very scarce. Never use satin to cover cord. It ravels
too much. Velvet and satin should be corded with substantial silk. If
you cannot match the exact shade, let it be darker rather than lighter.
A belt-ribbon should always be darker than the dress. Cord merino with
itself. A cording of silk will not wash.

If you cannot get lace that is tolerably fine, wear none at all, rather
than have it coarse. We have seen lace called Brussels, so coarse that
it looked as if made of cotton, though in truth it was of thread. There
was no real beauty in it. Genuine Brussels lace is exquisitely fine.

Large showy ornaments, by way of jewellery, are exceedingly ungenteel.
They always tell their own story, of glass stones set in gilding, not
gold. If you cannot obtain real jewels, never attempt sham ones. It
requires no practised eye to detect them--particularly false diamonds.

Do not interfere with the shopping of other customers, (who may chance
to stand near you at the counter,) by either praising or deprecating any
of the articles they are looking at. Leave them to the exercise of their
own judgment; unless they ask your opinion. And then give it in a low
voice, and sincerely.

If you meet an acquaintance unexpectedly in a store, it is not well to
engage in a long conversation with her, and thus detain persons behind
the counter from waiting on other customers. Finish your purchase-making
first, and then you will have leisure to step aside and converse. A
store is not the place for social intercourse, and you may chance to say
something there, that bystanders should not hear. "Greetings in the
market-place" should always be short.

It is not admissible to try on kid gloves in a store. After buying a
pair, ask for the glove-stretcher, (which they keep in all good shops,
for the convenience of customers,) and then stretch the gloves upon it,
unless you have a glove-stretcher at home. This will render them easy to
put on when you take them into wear. Glove-stretchers are to be bought
at the variety stores; or ought to be. They will save many a new glove
from tearing.

In buying stockings, whether silk or cotton, you will find it cheapest
in the end, to get those of the best _English_ manufacture, particularly
those of fine quality. For winter, and to wear with boots, English
stockings of unbleached cotton are very comfortable, feeling warmer than
those that are perfectly white. It is to be lamented that all black
stockings (even of silk) are painful and injurious to the feet, the
copperas dye being poisonous.

In buying black mits, see that they are _really of silk_, otherwise they
will stain your hands, and look brown and foxy. Much cotton is now
substituted for silk; a way having been discovered of carding silk and
cotton together, before the thread is spun. Linen also, is shamefully
adulterated with cotton, and it is difficult for purchasers to discover
the cheat before the article is washed. Linen is frequently injured in
the piece by bad bleaching-salts; so that after the first washing, it
drops into holes, such as are caused by vitriol. Of this we have had sad
experience in several instances, when the linen was supposed to be of
the best quality.

Always object to a parcel being put up in newspaper--as the printing-ink
will rub off, and soil the article enclosed. If it is a little thing
that you are going to take home in your own hand, it will smear your
gloves. All shopkeepers in good business can afford to buy proper
wrapping-paper, and they generally do so. It is very cheap. See also
that they do not wrap your purchase in so small a bit of paper as to
squeeze and crush it.

If you go out with much money, (which is never advisable,) divide it
into two portions, putting part in your pocket-book or porte-monnaie,
and the remainder into your purse, so that if you lose it, or have your
pocket picked, the loss may be less. Do not carry notes in your purse,
but keep them in your pocket-book. Little gold dollars had best go into
your porte-monnaie. If kept in your purse with small change, you will be
very likely to lose them, or to mistake them for three-cent pieces if
the light is bad.

Once, on embarking in a New York steamboat, we saw a gentleman having
bought a penny paper, give the news-boy a gold eagle in mistake for a
cent. The gentleman was instantly apprized of his error by a bystander,
who had seen it; but the boy had already sprung upon the wharf and was
lost in the crowd.

We knew an instance of a lady in New York giving a hundred-dollar note
to a strawberry woman, instead of a note of one dollar. Neither note nor
woman were seen or heard of more.

In getting change see that three-cent pieces are not given to you for
five cents.

And now a few words to saleswomen. They have always, when commencing
that vocation, two important qualities to cultivate (exclusive of
cleverness in business)--civility, and patience. In these two
requisites, few of our American young women are deficient. Let them also
learn activity in moving, and quickness in recollecting where all the
articles called for are to be found, so as not to keep the customers
waiting too long, while they, the sellers, are searching the shelves and
boxes. Also, if a lady wishes to match something, (for instance, a piece
of silk,) it is foolish and useless to bring her a piece that is not
_exactly_ like; trying to persuade her to take it, and calling it "as
good a match as she is likely to get." Of course she will _not_ take a
piece that is only _tolerably_ like, but not quite the same; for unless
it matches exactly, it is no match at all. If a customer enquires for
light blue ribbon it is absurd to bring her dark blue, saying "we have
no light blue"--or to say "we have no pink, but we have scarlet--we have
no lilac, but we have purple." Or still worse, to try to persuade the
customer that deep crimson is a beautiful shade of scarlet; or worse
than all, that those very unbecoming tints, called improperly rose-white
and pearl-white, are really a pure dead white; when you know very well
that they are no such thing. Both white and black are very difficult to
match _precisely_.

Let the yard-measure be visible to the customers. In some shops the
measure is at the back of the counter, hidden behind a glass case. This
practice of measuring out of sight, sometimes gives rise to a suspicion
that the measure is not true, as it is so easy to deceive where the
brass nails that mark it are concealed from view of the customers.

Every female who keeps, or attends in a store, should discourage the
visits of her friends at business hours. If she looks off to chat with
her shop-visiters, she cannot attend properly to her customers; and
those visiters may be inconsiderate and obtrusive enough to interfere,
by putting in their word, and praising the beauty or cheapness of the
articles, by way of promoting the interest of the seller, which it
ultimately _will not_.

Show as much civility and attention to a customer plainly dressed, and
walking on foot, or getting out of an omnibus, as you would to a lady
elegantly attired, and coming in her own carriage. The former may prove
the most profitable customer. Be careful to exhibit no temper, even if
you have had the trouble of showing a variety of goods to one who goes
away without buying any thing. Another time, perhaps, she may come and
make large purchases: but if you offend her, she will assuredly never
enter the store again. Recollect that no one feels under the least
compulsion to buy what does not suit them. You would not yourself.
Habitual courtesy is a valuable qualification, and always turns to good
account.


 When circumstances render it expedient to carry much money out with
you, divide it; putting half in one purse or pocket-book, and half in
another, and put these portions into two pockets.





PLACES OF AMUSEMENT.


It would be well in _all_ places of public amusement, if there could be
an apartment appropriated to the ladies, in which they might deposit
their cloaks, hoods, &c. in charge of a responsible attendant; her care
to be rewarded by a small gratuity. Ladies would then be under no
necessity of carrying warm outer-garments into a crowded and heated
room; or of wearing their bonnets, and thereby intercepting the view of
persons seated behind them; always a grievance where the benches are not
sufficiently elevated, or where there is no difference at all in their
respective elevation, as is sometimes the case. Also, the appearance of
the female part of the company is always more elegant, when wearing
bandeaus, caps, or other light head-dresses; young persons requiring
their hair only, or the slight decoration of a flower or a ribbon. It is
very painful and fatiguing to be for several hours continually dodging
your head from side to side, and stretching your neck this way and that,
and peeping wherever you can obtain a tantalizing glimpse between the
bonnets of ladies seated immediately before you. This, in addition to
the annoyance of being squeezed on a bench that is over-full, is enough
to destroy nearly all the pleasure of the exhibition; and to make a
large portion of the audience regret that they came.

If you wish to secure a good seat, go early. It is better to sit there
an hour before the commencement of the performance, than to arrive after
it has begun. The time of waiting will soon pass away, in conversation
with the friends whom you have accompanied.

When invited to join a party to a place of amusement, begin to prepare
in ample time; so as not to keep them waiting for you. When a _large_
party is going to a place of amusement, (for instance, the theatre, or
opera,) it is better that each family should go thither from their own
home, (being provided with their own tickets,) than that they should all
rendezvous at the house of one of the company; at the risk of keeping
the whole party waiting, perhaps for the very youngest members of it.
When a box has been taken, let the tickets be sent to all the persons
who are to have seats in it, and not retained by the taker of the box
till the whole party has assembled at the door of the theatre. If the
tickets are thus distributed, the persons from each house can go when
they please, without compelling any of the party to wait for them.

Still, to make an entrance after the performance has begun, is (or ought
to be) very embarrassing to ladies. It excites the attention of all
around, diverting that attention from the performance; and there is
always, when the house is full, and the hour late, some delay and
difficulty in reaching the seats, even when the seats have been secured.

If it is a concert, where places cannot be previously engaged, there
are, of course, additional reasons for going in due time; and the most
sensible and best-behaved part of the audience always endeavour to do
so. But if you are unavoidably late, be satisfied to pay the penalty, by
quietly taking back-seats, if no others are vacant. We have seen young
ladies not arriving till after the entertainment had commenced, march
boldly up to the front benches, and stand there looking steadfastly in
the faces of gentlemen who with their parties had earned good seats by
coming soon after the doors were opened. The ladies persevering in this
determined stare, till they succeeded in dislodging these unfortunate
gentlemen, and compelling them to quit their seats, to leave the ladies
who belonged to them, and to stand for the remainder of the evening,
perhaps in a distant part of the room. American _men_ are noted,
everywhere, for their politeness to females. We wish we could say the
same of the politeness of our fair countrywomen in return. Yet
frequently they will avail themselves of these civilities from
strangers, without rewarding them with a word of thanks, or even a bow
of acknowledgment.

English tourists remark (and with truth) that there is no position in
which American ladies appear to such disadvantage as when crowding the
galleries of our legislative assemblies; ejecting gentlemen to whom it
is of importance to hear the debates; and still worse, intruding upon
the floor of the senate-chamber, and compelling the senators to
relinquish their places, and find others where they can, or else to
stand all the time. And among these ladies, there may be very few who
are really capable of enjoying or appreciating the eloquence of our
distinguished orators, or of entering understandingly into the merits of
the question. Often these damsels are whispering half the time about
some nonsense of their own; and often, as is surmised, the chief object
of the ladies whose visits to the capitol are most frequent, is the
chance of a few words of flirtation with some of the most gallant among
the members; or the possibility of being escorted home by a congressman,
who has but little to do, or at least who does but little. We think the
English parliament is right in excluding ladies from their halls, except
when the queen goes there in state, to open or prorogue the session. Let
them be satisfied with reading the debates in the newspapers.

We acknowledge that it is very interesting to see and hear the most
eminent men of our country arranging the affairs of the nation; to
become acquainted with their personal appearance, and to listen to their
eloquence. But the privilege should not be abused as it is, by those
who, after all, listen so badly, or comprehend so badly, that if
questioned an hour afterward, they could scarcely repeat the purport of
one single sentence,--nor perhaps even recollect the subject of debate.
Such instances we have known--and not a few of them either.

To laugh deridingly, or to whisper unfavourable remarks during the
performance of a concert or a play, is a rudeness of which few American
ladies are guilty. Still, we occasionally see some of that few, who,
much to the annoyance of those persons near them who really wish to
enjoy what they came for, talk audibly in ridicule of the performers;
the performers being, in all probability, near enough to hear these
vexatious remarks, and to be disconcerted by them. We heard of a highly
respectable actress who was so mortified by the unfeeling animadversions
of some young ladies in a stage-box, that she forgot her part, was
unable to utter a word, or to restrain her tears, and became so nervous
that she played badly during the remainder of the piece, and was in
consequence, severely handled next day by the newspaper critics. This
was very hard.

Parents before taking their children to the theatre, should first
ascertain whether the play is such as will amuse or interest them. Small
children are invariably restless, troublesome, and finally sleepy at a
performance that affords _them_ no entertainment, and they will be
better at home. Yet we have seen little girls brought to see the painful
tragedy of the Gamester--or still worse, the dreary comedy of the
Stranger. How is it that young ladies are frequently matronized to plays
that even their mothers cannot witness without blushes?





TRAVELLING.


No lady should set out on a journey unprovided with an oiled-silk bag
for the reception of tooth-brushes, soap, a hair-brush, and a towel. Let
the bag be about half a quarter of a yard longer at the back than at the
front; so as to leave a flap to turn over, and tie down, when all the
articles are in. It should be square, (exclusive of the flap,) and about
a quarter and half-quarter in length, and the same in breadth; stitched
in compartments, something like an old-fashioned thread-case, only that
the compartments differ much in size. The two smallest are for two
tooth-brushes. Another should be broad enough to contain a hair-brush.
For travelling, have a hair-brush with a mirror at the back, and if you
can get one that has also a dressing-comb attached to it, so much the
better. The largest compartment (which should occupy the centre) is for
a towel, and a cake of soap. If you are obliged to start in haste, all
these things can be put in while wet from recent use, the towel being
rolled or folded into as small a compass as possible. The oiled silk
will prevent the wet from oozing through. When all are in, turn over the
flap at the top, (which should be furnished with two long strings of
broad, white tape,) and tie it securely down. Carry this bag in the
square satchel which all ladies now keep in their hands when travelling,
and which contain such things as they may want during the day,
precluding the necessity of opening their large carpet-bag, till they
stop for the night.

In a carpet-bag pack nothing but white articles, or such as can be
washed, and will not be spoiled by the bag chancing to get wet. Have
your name engraved on the lock of your carpet-bag, and also on the brass
plate of your trunks. Besides this, write your full direction on several
cards, make a small hole in each, and running a string through the hole,
tie a card to the handle of each trunk, and sew one on the side of your
carpet-bag--the direction designating the place to which you are going.
Your name in full should be painted in white letters on every trunk.
This costs but a trifle, and secures the recognition of your baggage
when missing. It is also an excellent plan to tie round the handle of
each trunk or bag, a bit of ribbon--blue, red, or yellow--all the bits
being off the same piece.[8]

Write on a large card, a list and description of each trunk, box, &c.
and give the card to the gentleman who escorts you. It will greatly
assist him in identifying all the articles that comprise your baggage.

Be quite ready at least a quarter of an hour before the time for
starting. Nelson said he traced all the most fortunate events of his
life to his practice of being, on every occasion, quite prepared a
quarter of an hour too early. It is a good rule.

Previous to departing, put into the hand of your escort rather more than
a sufficient sum for the expenses of your journey, so as to provide for
all possible contingencies. He will return you the balance when all is
paid. Having done this, should any person belonging to the line come to
you for your fare, refer them to the gentleman, (mentioning his name,)
and take care to pay nothing more yourself.

Dress very plainly when travelling. Few ladies that _are_ ladies wear
finery in rail-cars, and steamboats--still less in stages--stage-roads
being usually very dusty. Showy silks, and what are called dress-bonnets
are preposterous--so are jewellery ornaments, which, if real, you run a
great risk of losing, and if false, are very ungenteel. Above all, do
not travel in white kid gloves. Respectable women never do.

The best travelling-dresses are of merino, or alpaca; plain mousseline
de laine, grey or brown linen; or strong India silk, senshaw for
instance. In warm weather, gingham is better than printed lawn, which
rumples and tumbles and "gets into a string" directly. The sleeves wide,
for if tight to the arm, they will stain with perspiration. Your
travelling-dress for summer should have a large cape or pelerine of the
same. Beside which, carry on your arm a large shawl for chilly mornings
and evenings. No lady should travel in cold weather, without a warm
cloak, mantilla, or pelisse,--furs, &c. of course--and travelling-boots
lined with fur or flannel; having also inner soles of lambs-wool,
varnished on the leather side to make them water-proof. Take with you
one of those very useful umbrellas, that are large enough to shelter one
person from the rain, and can also be used as a parasol. Do not pack it
away in a trunk, for you may want it in the transit from rail-car to
steamboat. Keep it near you all the time, with your satchel and extra
shawl. By all means wear a white collar.

If you are fortunately able to ride backward as well as forward, you
will be less incommoded with flying sparks, by sitting with your back to
the engine. A spark getting into the eye is very painful, and sometimes
dangerous. It is possible to expel it by blowing your nose very hard,
while with the other hand you wipe out the particle of cinder with a
corner of your handkerchief, pulling down the lower eye-lid. We have
seen this done successfully. Another way is to wrap the head of a pin in
the corner of a fine, soft cambric handkerchief, and placing it beneath
the lid, sweep all round the eye with it. If this does not succeed, get
out at the first station-house where you can stop long enough, procure a
bristle-hair from a sweeping-brush, tie it in a loop or bow with a bit
of thread, and let some one insert it beneath your eye-lid, and move it
slowly all round, so as to catch in it the offending particle of coal,
and bring it out. Or if there is time, send to the nearest apothecary
for an eye-stone, (in reality, a lobster's eye,) and soak it five
minutes in a saucer of vinegar and water to give it activity, then,
wiping it dry, and carefully inserting it beneath the eye-lid, bind a
handkerchief over it. The eye-stone will go circling round the eye, and
most likely take up the mote in its course. When the pain ceases, remove
the handkerchief, and wash the eye with cold water.

To read in a rail-car is very injurious to the eyes, from the quivering,
tremulous motion it seems to communicate to the letters of the page. It
is best to abstain from your book till you are transferred to the
steamboat.

Many persons cannot talk in a rail-car without a painful exertion of the
voice. And it is not an easy task, even to those whose lungs are strong.
You can easily excuse yourself from conversing with your escort, by
telling him that your voice is not loud enough to be heard above the
racket of the cars, and that though you will gladly listen to _him_, he
must allow you to listen without replying, except in as few words as
possible. If he finds a gentleman with whom he is acquainted, desire him
to talk to his friend, and leave you to hear their conversation as a
silent auditor.

If you pass the night in a steamboat, and can afford the additional
expense of a _whole_ state-room, by all means engage one as soon as you
go on board. The chambermaid will give you the key and the number, and
you can retire to it whenever you please, and enjoy the luxury of being
alone, and of washing and dressing without witnesses. If you are
constrained to take a berth in the ladies' sleeping-cabin, it is not the
least necessary to retire to it immediately after supper. By doing so
you will have a very long, tiresome night, and be awake many hours
before morning. And if you are awake, do not be continually calling upon
the poor chambermaid, and disturbing her with enquiries, such as "Where
are we now?" and "How soon shall we arrive?"

The saloon is the place in which ladies and gentlemen sit together. If a
lady is so inconsiderate or selfish as to violate the rules of the boat,
by inviting her husband or lover to take a seat in the ladies' cabin,
there is no impropriety in sending the chambermaid to remind him that he
must leave the room. This is often done, and always should be. We once
saw a gentleman (or a pretended one) so pertinacious in remaining, (it
is true his lady-love urged him "not to mind,") that the captain had to
be brought to threaten him with forcible expulsion. This had the desired
effect.

Such are the facilities of travelling, that a lady evidently
respectable, plainly dressed, and behaving properly, may travel very
well without a gentleman. Two ladies still better. On commencing the
journey she should speak to the conductor, requesting him to attend to
her and her baggage, and to introduce her to the captain of the boat,
who will of course take charge of her during the voyage.

Before arriving at the wharf, she had best engage one of the servants of
the boat, (promising him a shilling or two,) to obtain for her a porter
or a hack, and to see that her baggage is safe. She must stipulate with
the hackman that no stranger is to be put into the carriage with her.
This is against the law, but notwithstanding, is often done, and the
lady who has first engaged the coach, is liable to have for her
riding-companions persons of improper character and vulgar appearance,
and to be carried with them to their places in remote parts of the city,
before she is conveyed to her own home. Previous to getting in, take the
number of the coach, by writing it on a card with your pencil, and make
your bargain with him as to the charge for conveying you and your
baggage.

It would be well if the imposition and insolence of hack-drivers were
_always_ followed with the punishments provided by law. Ladies are
naturally unwilling to appear at a magistrate's office. But it is the
duty of every gentleman, as a good citizen, to see that the municipal
regulations are never violated with impunity.

All trouble may be avoided on arriving, by sending for the captain of
the boat, and requesting him to see you on shore, or to depute his clerk
to that office.

In arriving at a rail-road depôt, be careful not to quit the cars till
after they have positively stopped quite still. The time gained is but
an instant, and the risk is very imminent of serious injury by falling,
should your ankle twist in stepping out while there is the least motion.

On arriving at a hotel, ask immediately to see the proprietor; give him
your name and address, tell how long you purpose staying, and request
him to see that you are provided with a good room. Request him also to
conduct you to the dining-room at dinner-time, and allot you a seat near
his own. For this purpose, he will wait for you near the door, (do not
_keep him waiting_,) or meet you in the ladies' drawing-room. While at
table, if the proprietor or any other gentleman asks you to take wine
with him, politely refuse.

If, on arriving at the wharf, you expect a gentleman to meet you, take a
seat either on deck near the cabin-door, or just inside of the door, so
that he may find you easily.

If you are to pursue your journey early in the morning, desire,
over-night, the waiter who attends your room, to knock hard at your door
an hour before the time of starting. Before you go down-stairs, ask for
the chambermaid who has attended you, and give her a fee, (not less than
a quarter-dollar,) putting it into her own hand yourself, and not
commissioning another to convey it to her. Do not omit giving a
quarter-dollar at least, to the waiter who attended your room, and one
also to him who has served you at table.

Refrain from making acquaintance with any strangers, unless you are
certain of their respectability. If a gentleman of whom you know
nothing, endeavours to get into conversation with you, turn away, and
make no reply. Avoid saying any thing to women in showy attire, with
painted faces, and white kid gloves. Such persons have frequently the
assurance to try to be very sociable with respectable ladies who are
travelling alone. Keep aloof from them always.

If you have breakfasted early, it will be well to put some
gingerbread-nuts or biscuits into your satchel, as you may become very
hungry before dinner.

Carry but little money in your pocket--not more than will suffice for
the expenses of the day. But for travelling, have another pocket,
concealed _beneath_ your upper petticoat, and _in that_ keep the main
portion of your cash. Be cautious of taking bank-notes in change--they
may be such as you cannot pass. If they are offered to you, refuse them,
and insist upon gold or silver.

Travelling in America, ladies frequently meet with little civilities
from gentlemen, so delicately offered, that to refuse them would be
rude. These incidental acts of politeness should always be acknowledged
with thanks; but they should not be construed into a desire of
commencing an acquaintance. If a lady obliged to travel alone, wishes to
be treated with respect, her own deportment must in all things be quiet,
modest and retiring.

If you have a servant with you, see that she gets her meals, and has a
comfortable sleeping-place, or in all probability she will be neglected
and overlooked. In a steamboat or a hotel, speak yourself to the
head-waiter, and desire him to take her to the servants' table and
attend to her; and tell the chambermaid to see her provided with a bed.
If their lady forgets to look out for them, coloured women in particular
have often no courage to look out for themselves.

 In a former work of the author's, _The House Book_, published by A.
Hart, Philadelphia, will be found ample directions for packing trunks,
&c.





DEPORTMENT AT A HOTEL, OR AT A LARGE BOARDING-HOUSE.


Now that there is so much travelling in the summer, (and indeed at all
seasons,) and so much living in public, to save the trouble and the
expense of keeping house in private, it may be well to offer some hints
on the propriety of manners that ought to be observed in places where
you are always exposed to the inspection and to the remarks of
strangers. These strangers, knowing you but slightly, or not at all,
will naturally draw their inferences for or against you from what they
see before their eyes; concluding that you are genteel or ungenteel,
patrician or plebeian, according to the coarseness or the polish of your
manners.

Yet strange to say, there are persons who indulge themselves in
astounding acts of rudeness, from the supposition that a hotel is only a
tavern, a sort of Liberty Hall, where every one has a right to "take
their ease in their inn," if they pay for it. Have they no respect for
themselves?

It is usual for members of the same party to meet in the ladies'
drawing-room before they go in to breakfast, unless the party is large;
and then it is not expected that half a dozen persons should be kept
waiting for one or two late risers, or tardy dressers. When two or
three of the party find themselves ready in the parlour, it will be best
for them to proceed to the eating-room, and leave the others to follow
at their convenience, by twos or by threes,--always seeing that a young
lady, if a stranger, is not left to go in alone. Strangers at hotels can
have no particular seats at breakfast and tea, as at these two repasts,
they always come to table by instalments, and at no regular time. If a
large party enters all at once and they are _determined_ to sit all
together, they may occasion much inconvenience to persons already
seated, or to the regular boarders, who have their allotted seats.
Neither is there any necessity or advantage in six, eight, or ten
people, who travel as one party, resolving to establish themselves at a
hotel-table all side by side, in a row; particularly when it causes
inconvenience to others. Certainly not more than three or four persons
ranged in a line can join in the same conversation, or attend to the
wants of their friends. Why then should they make any extraordinary
point of occupying chairs next to each other. It would be better to
divide their forces; and if they can, for half to sit on one side of the
table, and the other half directly opposite. Or they will find that if
the table is full, and they have to disperse still more widely, they had
best do so with a good grace, rather than make any disturbance on the
subject. When they quit the table to return to the drawing-room they may
be very sure of all meeting again near the door.

Nine o'clock (or half-past) is the latest hour that any guest at a
hotel should come to breakfast; and few _Americans_ have so little
consideration as to detain the table and the servants till ten or
eleven.[9] At a boarding-house, the guests are very soon made to
understand that if they are late risers, they need expect nothing but
the cold leavings of the breakfast. At a hotel they find more
indulgence. You there choose from the bill of fare such dishes as you
may prefer, and they will be brought to you, after you have been
supplied with tea or coffee, and bread and butter to begin with. To each
person is allowed a separate dish or plate of the articles selected; and
it is understood to be for yourself alone, and that no other person has
a right to partake of it, or to meddle with it in any way. Yet even from
your own dish, never help yourself with the knife and fork or spoon you
are eating with; but always use a spare one, with which the waiter will
furnish you. Do not eat different sorts of relishes off the same plate.
At a hotel there is no scarcity of plates, or of servants to change
them. Always take butter with the butter-knife, and then do not forget
to return that knife to the butter-plate. Carefully avoid cutting bread
with your own knife, or taking salt with it from the salt-cellar. It
looks as if you had not been accustomed to butter-knives and
salt-spoons.

Ladies no longer eat salt-fish at a public-table. The odour of it is
now considered extremely ungenteel, and it is always very disagreeable
to those who _do not_ eat it. If you breakfast alone, you can then
indulge in it.

Speak to the waiter in a distinct, but not in too loud a voice, and
always civilly. Thank him for any little extra attention he may show
you. If you do not like what he has brought you, or find that you cannot
eat it, make your objection in a low voice, so as not to be heard by the
neighbouring guests; and quietly desire him to bring you something else.

It is usual at a hotel-table for each waiter to have charge of three or
four persons, and to attend to _their_ wants exclusively. If you are a
stranger, ask the waiter his name when he first comes to you; and unless
he is not at hand, and you see another standing idle, do not call on any
one else to attend you.

If the servants are coloured men, refrain from all conversation in their
presence that may grate harshly on their feelings, by reminding them of
their unfortunate African blood. Do not talk of them as "negroes,"[10]
or "darkies." Avoid all discussions of abolition, (either for or
against,) when coloured people are by. Also, quote none of their
laughable sayings while they are present.

When the domestics are Irish, and you have occasion to reprove them for
their negligence, forgetfulness, or blunders, do so without any
reference to their country. If you find one who is disrespectful or
insolent, or who persists in asserting a falsehood, it is safest to make
no reply yourself, but to have the matter represented to the proprietor
of the house; desiring that another waiter may be allotted to you.

It is ungenteel to go to the breakfast-table in any costume approaching
to full dress. There must be no flowers or ribbons in the hair. A
morning-cap should be as simple as possible. The most genteel
morning-dress is a close gown of some plain material, with long sleeves,
which in summer may be white muslin. A merino or cashmere wrapper,
(grey, brown, purple, or olive,) faced or trimmed with other merino of
an entirely different colour, such as crimson, scarlet, green, or blue,
is a becoming morning dress for winter. In summer, a white
cambric-muslin morning-robe is the handsomest breakfast attire, but one
of gingham or printed muslin the most convenient. The coloured dress may
be made open in front, with short loose sleeves and a pointed body.
Beneath it a white under-dress, having a chemisette front down to the
belt, and long white sleeves down to the wrist. This forms a very
graceful morning costume, the white skirt appearing where the coloured
skirt opens.

The fashion of wearing black silk mittens at breakfast is now obsolete.
It was always inconvenient, and neither useful nor ornamental.

After breakfast, it is customary for the ladies to adjourn to the
drawing-room, where they converse, or read the papers, or receive early
visiters, while the chambermaids are putting the bed-chambers in order.
Some who are not accustomed to hotels, go immediately from the
breakfast-table to their own apartment, sitting there among the flue and
dust during the whole process of bed-making and room-sweeping; afraid to
trust the chambermaid alone, lest she should steal something. This is
absurd. They should know that the chambermaids (being all considered
honest and responsible) are furnished with duplicate keys, by which they
can at any time unlock the chamber-doors, and let themselves in, when
the occupant is absent. Also, this palpable suspicion of their honesty
is an insult to the girls, and is always felt as such. It is sufficient
to lock the bureau, the wardrobe, and your trunks. When you go out,
(that is, out of the house,) _then_ lock the door of your room, lest
some one passing by, should have curiosity to stroll in and look about,
and meddle with what they see there.

Should you perceive that the dress of another lady is, by some accident,
out of order--for instance, that a hook or a button has become
unfastened; or that a string is visibly hanging out; a collar unpinned,
and falling off; the corner of a shawl dragging along the floor; a skirt
caught up; or a sleeve slipping down, immediately have the kindness to
apprize her of it in a low voice, and assist her in repairing the
mischance; and, if necessary, leave the room with her for that purpose.

We have seen a lady who, finding that a cluster of her false curls was
coming down, had the courage to say so to a gentleman with whom she was
conversing at a party. And going openly, and at once, to the nearest
mirror, she calmly adjusted her borrowed locks, and returned to her seat
with a good grace. Consequently, nobody laughed at the untoward
accident; as might perhaps have been the case, had she seemed
excessively confused and mortified, and awkwardly tried to hold on her
curls till she got out of the room.

If you do not wish to be encumbered by carrying the key in your pocket,
let it be left during your absence, with the clerk in the office, or
with the barkeeper; and send to him for it on your return. Desire the
servant who attends the door to show no person up to your room during
your absence. If visiters wish to wait for your return, it is best they
should do so in the parlour.

In going in and out, be careful to shut the parlour-doors after you,
except in summer. Young ladies are often very inconsiderate in this
respect, and cause much inconvenience, in cold weather, to those who do
not like to sit with a draught of keen air blowing upon them. Even if
you feel too warm yourself, it is rude to throw open a door, (much more
to raise a window-sash,) without first enquiring if other ladies have no
objection.

There is no impropriety in a lady commencing conversation with a
stranger of genteel appearance. You can easily take occasion to mention
your own name, and then, in return, she will communicate hers. But,
unless you are previously certain of her respectability, have little to
say to a woman who is travelling without a companion, and whose face is
painted, who wears a profusion of long curls about her neck, who has a
meretricious expression of eye, and who is over-dressed. It is safest to
avoid her. Also, you will derive no pleasure or advantage from making
acquaintance with females who are evidently coarse and vulgar, even if
you know that they are rich, live in a large house, and are of
respectable character. Young girls who are loud, noisy, bold, and
forward, (however fashionable they may be,) it is best also to avoid.
They will not want your society, as they are generally all the time
surrounded by "beaux," or else rattling over the keys of the piano.

In a public parlour, it is selfish and unmannerly to sit down to the
instrument uninvited, and fall to playing or practising, without seeming
to consider the probability of your interrupting or annoying the rest of
the company, particularly when you see them all engaged in reading or in
conversation. If you want amusement, you had better read, or occupy
yourself with some light sewing or knitting-work.

If you have no book, you can ring the bell, and send to the reading-room
to borrow a file of newspapers; but in most hotels, there are books
belonging to the establishment, lying on a table in the ladies' parlour.
Be sure not to carry any of these books up-stairs, as they are intended
solely for the drawing-room; and their removal from thence is
interdicted. Also, never carry away the Directory, the Atlas, the City
Guide, or any other book placed there for the convenience of strangers.

If you want pen and ink, or any sort of stationery, you can obtain it
immediately, by ringing for a servant to bring it you from the office.
In ringing the bell, one pull is sufficient; and always pull the cord
_downward_. If you jerk it out horizontally, and give successively
several hard pulls in that direction, the cord is very likely to break,
or the knob or tassel to come off in your hand. At the chief hotel in
one of the New England cities, we saw a printed paper with directions in
large type, pasted beside _every bell-pull in the house_; the directions
specifying minutely the proper mode of bell-ringing. Could it be that
this house was frequented by persons unaccustomed to bells?

To return to the too-prevalent evil of uninvited and ill-timed
piano-playing, (much of which does not deserve the name of music,) we
have always been at a loss to understand how a young stranger, (modest
and unobtrusive in other things,) could walk up to the instrument,
sometimes almost as soon as she arrives, and rattle "fast and furious"
over the keys, drowning the voices of ladies and gentlemen who were
talking, and therefore compelling them to cease their conversation; or
if they pursued it, obliging them to raise their tone painfully; or to
lose more than half, from the impossibility of hearing each other
distinctly. To read when piano-playing is going on, is to most persons
impossible. There are few readers who cannot so concentrate their
attention on their book, as not to be disturbed by any _talking_ that
may occur in their vicinity; and if talking _does_ withdraw their
attention from the book, it is best that they should read only when
alone in their apartment. But we have met with no one who could read in
the neighbourhood of a played piano.

If the music is really very good, and accompanied by a fine voice, it is
true that most readers will willingly close the book to listen. But if
the playing is barely tolerable, or decidedly bad, and if the singing is
weak and insipid, or harsh and screaming, or timeless and tasteless, who
can possibly wish to hear it; except perhaps a doating father, or an
injudicious mother, vain of her daughter because she is _hers_, and so
anxious to show her off, that she encourages the girl to display even
her deficiencies.

We believe that our beloved America is not yet the land of music; and
that (with many exceptions) her children are generally not furnished
with much capacity for it. If there was a true feeling for music, there
would be more genius for that charming art, and there would be more
composers of original airs, the number of which, in our country, is
smaller than in any civilized nation in the world. It is true we have
many excellent musicians, and many very good singers, but still, music
is not the grand forte of Jonathan. Pity it were,--for he has "a nobler
and a manlier one."

Now as "there is a time for all things," we persist in saying that the
time and place for school-girls to hear their own music, or to prove
that it is not worth hearing, is not in the drawing-room of a hotel, or
in the presence of a company that can have no desire to hear them. What
would be thought of a young lady, who in a public room, should suddenly
come forward and "speak a speech;" or suddenly rise up, and commence,
"loud and high," a reading of poetry, or recite a French fable, or
repeat the multiplication table, or favour the company with a
spontaneous _pas seul_. And yet we do not perceive that any of these
feats would be a much greater evidence of deficiency in diffidence, (to
call it by no bolder name,) than the practice of rattling, uninvited and
unseasonably, over the keys of a piano. A really good musician is rarely
obtrusive with her music, seldom playing unless she is asked; and then,
of course, complying at once.[11]

We repeat that no lady should play or sing in company, unless she knows
herself to be universally considered a good singer or player, and
capable of something more than the mere series of lessons she has learnt
from her music teacher. Also, some punishment should be devised for a
young girl who cannot play, yet has the folly and assurance to seat
herself at the piano of a public parlour, and annoy the company by an
hour of tinking and tanking with one finger only. Yet this we have seen;
and her mother present all the time.

The gratuitous exhibition of bad music is said by Europeans to be one of
the peculiar characteristics of American young ladies. Let them then
"reform it altogether."

Bring no large sewing into the ladies' drawing-room, and nothing that
will produce clippings or litter. Whenever you have occasion to write
more than a few lines, do it in your own apartment. It is well to have
always there a small writing-case of your own, with paper, pens, ink,
wafers, sealing-wax, envelopes, post-office stamps, &c. There are very
neat little writing-cases, (to be purchased at the best stationers,)
that are fitted with receptacles for all the above articles, excepting
paper; the whole occupying no more space in your travelling-satchel than
a needle-book. The ink is so secured, that there is no danger of its
spilling. You may even carry these writing-cases in your pocket as
conveniently as a card-case. As writing-paper should not be folded or
rolled in packing, lay it flat in a small port-folio, and put it into
your trunk. You will find great convenience, when from home, to have
with you a little assortment of writing materials.

Except in cases of illness, it is well to decline invitations to visit
ladies in their own apartments, unless you are very intimately
acquainted with them, or have some particular business. Too much
sociability may induce communications too confidential; and subsequent
events may prove this confidence to be misplaced. Among the ladies
staying at a hotel, there is always more harmony, when they all content
themselves with meeting at table, or in the public drawing-room. Young
ladies should not encourage daily morning visits from young men boarding
at the same house, particularly if these visits are long. In our
country, nearly every young man is obliged, in some way, to get his own
living; and few can afford to idle away their mornings in loitering
about parlours, and talking flirtation. A youth who passes his time in
this manner, is a beau not worth having. A man that deserves to be
called a _good match_ has something else to do with his mornings. Ladies
at hotels should be specially careful not to make acquaintance with
gentlemen of whom they know nothing. If a man of notoriously dissipated
or immoral character, presumes to request an introduction to a lady who
is aware of his bad reputation, let her at once reply that not
considering the acquaintance desirable, she must be excused for
declining it. It is better thus to keep off an objectionable man, (even
with the certainty of offending him,) than weakly to subject yourself to
the annoyance and discredit (perhaps, still worse) of allowing him to
boast of his intimacy with you.

In conversing with gentlemen at hotels, (and all other places,) try not
to fall into the too common practice of talking to him nothing but
nonsense. It is a problem difficult to solve, that so many ladies of
good abilities and cultivated minds, and who always with their own sex
talk like intelligent, sensible women, should, as soon as they get into
conversation with a gentleman, seem immediately to take leave of
rationality, and demean themselves like utter fools--giving way at once
to something they call _excitement_, now the fashionable word for almost
every feeling that is wrong.

We grieve to see a charming, modest, refined young lady, almost the
moment a gentleman begins to talk to her, changing her whole demeanour,
and quickly becoming bold, forward, noisy, and nonsensical; chattering
at the top of her voice about nothing; and keeping up a continual laugh
about nothing. Does she suppose he cannot understand her if she talks
sense,--or does she think he will like her the better for regaling him
with nothing but folly? She is, in all probability, egregiously
mistaken, unless the gentleman is himself a simpleton.

Let it not be supposed that we have any objection to that sprightliness
which is one of the most agreeable characteristics of youth. On the
contrary, we are glad to see vivacity in women of all ages; and if they
have a sprinkling of wit and humour, so much the better. But we wish
them to do themselves justice; and not, when conversing with men, run
wild, because it _is_ with men; and give themselves up to all manner of
folly, such as would be pointless, vapid, and insipid, if it was not
seasoned with causeless laughter, and with eyes keeping time to the
tongue, rolling about in perpetual motion at nothing. We do not wish
ladies in conversing, even with men of sense, to confine themselves
always to grave discussions on important subjects. On the contrary, gay
and lively conversation is always pleasant, when well-timed. But those
who have not a talent for wit and humour, had best not attempt it.
Again, in listening to a woman of real wit, you will see that it is her
hearers who laugh, and not herself.

Persons who have no turn for humour, and little perception of it, are
apt to mistake mere coarseness for that amusing gift; and in trying to
be diverting, often become vulgar--a word not too severe for things that
are sometimes said and written by very good people who wish to be funny,
and do not know how. For instance, there is no wit, but there is
shocking ungentility, in a lady to speak of taking a "snooze" instead of
a nap,--in calling pantaloons "pants," or gentlemen "gents,"--in saying
of a man whose dress is getting old that he looks "seedy,"--and in
alluding to an amusing anecdote, or a diverting incident, to say that it
is "rich." All slang words are detestable from the lips of ladies.

We are always sorry to hear a young lady use such a word as "polking"
when she tells of having been engaged in a certain dance too fashionable
not long since; but happily, now it is fast going out, and almost
banished from the best society. To her honour be it remembered, Queen
Victoria has prohibited the polka being danced in her presence. How can
a genteel girl bring herself to say, "Last night I was polking with Mr.
Bell," or "Mr. Cope came and asked me to polk with him." Its coarse and
ill-sounding name is worthy of the dance.

If you own a lap-dog or poodle, recollect that however charming it may
be to yourself, others may regard it as an annoyance; therefore, try to
do without it when you are in the parlour of a house that is not your
own, and when the company present does not consist entirely of your own
family. All but their infatuated mistresses soon become very tired of
the society of these animals. Poodles are generally peevish, whining,
and snappish, prone to get under chairs and bite at feet, and to writhe
about the skirts of dresses. Their faces often look old, withered,
cross, and blear-eyed, seeming as if constantly troubled by the hair
that dangles uncomfortably in their eyes; and they are seldom healthy.
They have none of the honest, grateful, affectionate character common to
dogs of larger growth. Though they often inspire their mistress with a
love that becomes such a mania as to weaken her affection for all other
things, they seldom make friends of any one else. We include what is
called a King Charles's dog in the same category. For instance
Jip--whose character is as true to nature, and as admirably drawn as
that of Dora herself.

Should a visiter come in to see one of the boarders who may be sitting
near you, change your place, and take a seat in a distant part of the
room. It is ill-manners to remain, and listen to the conversation. It is
best for the visited lady to meet her friend as soon as she sees her
enter the room, and conduct her to a sofa or ottoman where they can
enjoy their talk without danger of being overheard. After the visiter is
gone, do not enquire her name of the friend she has just called on.

It is _not_ well to call at the same time on two ladies both living at
the same house, (so as to make one visit suffice for both,) unless they
are intimate friends of each other, or unless your stay in the city will
be very short. If one is taciturn, and the other conversable, she that
is silent may imagine herself neglected, by the dialogue being chiefly
between those who can talk fluently, as it certainly will be, if the
third person only speaks when spoken to, and replies in monosyllables.

It is better to make a separate visit to each lady, on different days.
There is another way, and a very good one. For instance, should Mrs.
Canning wish to call on Mrs. Austin and Miss Lovel, both inmates of the
same house, let her, when shown into the parlour, send up her name to
Mrs. Austin first. When that lady comes down, and she and her friend
have conversed about as long as the usual term of a morning call, Mrs.
Canning will rise to depart, and when Mrs. Austin has seen her to the
parlour door, Mrs. C. may say, "I will detain you no longer," or "I will
encroach no longer on your time, but I am going now to send up for Miss
Lovel."

Mrs. Austin then takes her leave, and goes up-stairs, (_her_ part of the
visit being over;) while Mrs. Canning returns to her seat in the
parlour, having first rung the bell, and sent for Miss Lovel.

In this manner, two distinct visits may be politely made to two ladies
living in the same hotel--and it is very customary.

Any lady that lives at a hotel can in some degree make a return for the
civilities received from private families, by occasionally inviting a
friend to dine or take tea with her. These dinners or teas are of course
always charged in her bill. If she expects a friend, she will previously
send to apprize the head-waiter that she wishes him to reserve a seat
next to her own, for a lady. She should give her arm to her guest, in
going to the table.

If a friend chances to call, whom she really wishes to stay and dine or
drink tea with her, she should ask her guest to take off her bonnet as
soon as she comes in; giving her the invitation at once, and not
delaying it till the visiter is about taking her leave.

Even in a private house, such extemporaneous invitations (which if
evidently sincere, are always gratifying, whether accepted or not)
should be given _immediately_, as soon as the hostess meets her guest.
There will then be time to order any improvement in the table
arrangements that may be deemed necessary.

We often have occasion to repeat, that whatever is done at all, should
be done well.

If, while in the parlour of the hotel, you wish to know if a person you
are desirous of seeing is staying at the house, the easiest way to
obtain the information, is not to enquire round of the ladies present,
but to ring the bell, and desire the waiter to go and ask at the office.
You can then send a message accordingly. It should be a card with a
message pencilled on it.

By sending to the office you may learn where all the public places in
the city and its environs are to be found. Also, where the churches are
situated.

You may be sure that the most fashionable shops are in the main street.

At any stationer's, you can buy a small pocket-map of the city, folded
in a little morocco case. This will be an almost indispensable aid in
finding your way. In Philadelphia, the arrangement of the long streets
that run east and west from the Delaware to the Schuylkill, has given
occasion to the old rhyme of

    Market, Arch, Race and Vine,
    Chestnut, Walnut, Spruce and Pine.

If when about to ascend the stairs, you find that a gentleman is going
up at the same time, draw back and make a sign for him to precede you.
He will bow, and pass on before you. When coming down, do the same, that
the gentleman may descend in advance of you.

A very polished man will not wait for a signal from the lady, but will
bow and run up-stairs, passing her as a thing of course.

Do not idly detain a parlour newspaper on your lap, for half an hour or
more, after you have done reading it. As soon as you have read all you
want, replace it on the table, or transfer it to another lady, who may
wish to read it, and who may have been waiting anxiously to see you lay
it out of your hand. You have no right to monopolize any thing that is
intended for the convenience of the whole company.

 Nevertheless, it is not good manners to make any remark (even to a
friend) on their coming to breakfast late or early. It is no concern of
yours, and they have reasons of their own, undoubtedly.


 It is customary with professional or public musicians, when in
private company, to volunteer a song or a piece; knowing that, out of
delicacy, no one will _ask_ them to give a gratuitous specimen of the
art by which they live. This is polite and proper. It is always duly
appreciated, and adds to the popularity of the performer.





HOTEL DINNER.


In dressing for a hotel dinner, it is not well to adopt a full evening
costume, and to appear as if attired for a ball; for instance, with a
coloured velvet gown; or one of a splendid brocade; or a transparent
gauze material over a satin; or with short sleeves and bare neck in cold
weather; or with flowers or jewels in the hair. Such costumes should be
reserved for evening parties. If worn at the table d'hôte, it may be
suspected you have no other place in which to display them. Your dress
need not be more showy than you would wear when dining at a private
house, particularly if you are a permanent boarder. There is no place
where dress escapes with less scrutiny than at a great hotel. Still, it
is bad taste to go to the dinner-table in ungenteel and unbecoming
habiliments--such as a figured or party-coloured mousseline-de-laine, a
thing which always has the effect of calico, and, like calico, gives an
unlady-like look even to the most decided lady. In fact, what is it but
woollen calico? And if it is accompanied by a very thin, flimsy collar,
so small and narrow as to be scarcely visible, the neck and face will
look dingy and ill-coloured for want of sufficient white to relieve it.
No collar at all, but merely a coloured silk handkerchief, or a
coloured dress, coming immediately against the neck, is disfiguring to
all women, and men too.

Most American ladies beyond the age of thirty-five, look better in caps
than without them, even if their hair shows no signs of middle age.
Before that time, the females of our country begin to fade, evincing one
effect of torrid summers and frozen winters. A tasteful and simply
elegant cap (not one that is elaborate in its design, and loaded with
ornament,) imparts a grace and softness to a faded face, and renders
less conspicuous the inroads of time. A decidedly old lady, persisting
in going with her head uncovered, is a pitiable object, and scarcely
looks respectable. Worse still, when she takes to an auburn wig. Gray
hair is seldom unbecoming to a man. To a woman it gives a masculine
aspect, especially if worn without a cap; and if there is an attempt at
long gray locks, or ringlets, the effect is strange, wild and ghastly.
It is far more becoming for an elderly lady to give a dark shade to her
temples, and the upper part of her forehead, by a plain, simple, and
becoming dark-coloured braid, not intended to pass as her natural hair,
(for it never does,) but merely that the face should be set off by a due
proportion of shadow,--and not be all light or lightish. If a decidedly
old lady prefers wearing her own gray hair, let her part it smoothly on
her forehead, but make no attempt at curls, and be sure to add a cap to
it. An elderly female should, as we have said, _always_ wear a cap; and
her cap should have tabs or broad strings to tie under her chin. There
is no use or beauty in a lady looking older than is necessary, by
wearing a short-eared or round-eared cap, set back from her head, and
exposing all her cheeks even beyond her ears, with the crease in her
chin, and the deep furrows or wrinkles on each side of her neck--all
which can be concealed by bringing forward the bow of her cap tabs.

Let all ladies, old and young, avoid having their caps trimmed with
ribbons or flowers of what are called high-colours; deep, heavy pinks
and blues, and reddish lilacs. These colours vulgarize every thing they
are intended to decorate. High-coloured ribbons, flowered or figured,
are decidedly vulgar.

A profusion of jewels at a public table is in very bad taste,
particularly if the jewellery is palpably false--for instance, a large
brooch with great mock diamonds, or a string of wax beads meant for
pearls. Still worse, glass things imitating topazes or garnets--or two
or three gilt bracelets on one arm. A _large_ imitation gem always
betrays its real quality by its size.

Endeavour to make your arrangements so as to be dressed for dinner, and
seated in the ladies' drawing-room, about ten or fifteen minutes before
the dining-hour, that you may be ready to go in with the rest of the
company.

If you and your party are strangers, recently arrived, do not at once
take the lead, and walk up to the head of the table, regardless of
dislodging and causing inconvenience among the regular boarders, to whom
those seats have been allotted. But desire a servant to show you a
place. The head-waiter is usually at hand to arrange seats for the
strangers, and he will attend to you. Persons not accustomed to hotels,
frequently show a great craving for the seats near the head of the
table. This is foolish. There are no places of honour; neither are the
eatables better at one part of the table than another.

Nobody "sits below the salt." And every one has an equal chance of
obtaining a share of the nicest articles on the table. What is most
desirable is to have a seat in the vicinity of agreeable people, and you
will more frequently find them about the middle, or lower end of the
table, than at the top--that being the place usually most coveted by the
least genteel of the guests. We have seen the Chief Magistrate of the
Union, "the ruler of millions," simply take a seat near the door, at the
lower end of a hotel-table, in Philadelphia, having arrived
unexpectedly.

As we have said before, we perceive not the propriety or the convenience
of a large party of strangers, on entering in a body, pertinaciously
making their way to the upper end of the table, with a determination to
obtain seats all in a row; as if the whole row together could join in
the same conversation, or even _see_ each other, when they sit on the
same side.

In seating yourself, look down for a moment to see if you have placed
the foot of your chair on the dress of the lady sitting next to you; and
if you have done so, remove it immediately, that her dress may be in no
danger of tearing when she attempts to rise. Sit close to the table,
but never lean your elbows upon it. To sit far from it, and reach out
distantly, is very awkward. Having unfolded your napkin, secure it to
your belt with a pin, to prevent its slipping down from your lap, and
falling under the table. This may be done so that the pinning will not
be perceptible. Bring with you a spare pin or two for this purpose,--or
keep always a pincushion in your pocket. It is much better than to incur
the risk of getting your dress greased or stained by the napkin
deserting your lap. If such accidents _should_ happen, pass them over
slightly, and do not lose your temper. For the present, wipe the spot
with your napkin, and dip the corner in water, and rub it lightly over
the grease-mark. When dinner is over, you can finish repairing the
injury in your own room. The coloured waiters are generally very clever
at removing grease-spots from dresses. One of them will do it for you
after dinner. The stain of wine or fruit may in most cases be taken out
of a washable article by laying it immediately in cold water.

To eat in gloves or mittens was always foolish; fortunately it is no
longer fashionable; but greatly the contrary.

Refrain from loud talking, or loud laughing. Young ladies truly genteel
are never conspicuously noisy at a public table, or anywhere else. Still
more carefully refrain from whispering, or exchanging significant
glances. Whispers are always overheard, (even when the vulgar precaution
is taken of screening your mouth with your hand,) and glances are
always observed.[12] Joggings, nudgings, pinchings, sleeve-pullings,
&c. are excessively unlady-like, and shamefully impudent when (as is
often the case) the eye of the jogger is fixed upon the object of the
jog. To put up an eye-glass at the face of a stranger, is very rude. So
it is to make remarks in French.

When eating fish, first remove the bones carefully, and lay them on the
edge of your plate. Then with your fork in your right hand, (the concave
or hollow side held uppermost,) and a small piece of bread in your left,
take up the flakes of fish. Servants, and all other persons, should be
taught that the butter-sauce should not be _poured over_ the fish, but
put on one side of the plate, that the eater may use it profusely or
sparingly, according to taste, and be enabled to mix it conveniently
with the sauce from the fish-castors. Pouring butter-sauce _over_ any
thing is now ungenteel.

Do not attempt removing a cover from a dish, that you may help yourself
before the rest of the company. Leave all that to the waiters. Tell them
what you want in a distinct, but not in a loud, conspicuous voice. In
asking a servant to bring you a thing, add not the useless and senseless
words "_will_ you?" for instance, "Bring me the bread, will you?"--"Give
me some water, will you?" Of course he will. Has he the option of
refusing? How you would be startled were he to answer, "_I will not_."
It is well always to say, even to servants, "I will thank you for the
bread,--or the water." If you are a stranger in the house, ask, at the
beginning, the servant who waits on you to tell you his name. This may
save you some inconvenience. Where servants are numerous, they should
always go by their surnames, and be called Wilson, Jackson, Thomson, or
whatever it may be. This will prevent the confusion arising from half a
dozen Johns, or as many Williams.

If the waiters are attentive, and in sufficient number, you will have,
at a _good_ hotel, little or no occasion to help yourself to any thing.
Do not, under any circumstances, reach across the table, or rise on your
feet to get at any particular dish you may want. Trouble no one of the
company; but wait till you see a servant at hand. No man who is a
gentleman ever puts the ladies in requisition to help him at table.

It is not customary at hotels for ladies to be assiduous in watching and
supplying the plates of gentlemen. They can take care of themselves.

If in turning to speak to a waiter, you find him in the act of serving
some one else, say, "_When you are at leisure_, I will thank you for
some water,"--or whatever you may want.

It is selfish to be continually sending out of the room the man who
waits near you, for the purpose of bringing extra things for yourself.
Try to be satisfied with what you find on the table, and recollect that
you are depriving others of his services, while you are dispatching him
back and forward on errands to the kitchen.

Many persons hold silver forks awkwardly, as if not accustomed to them.
It is fashionable to use your knife only while cutting up the food small
enough to be eaten with the fork alone. While cutting, keep the fork in
your left hand, the hollow or concave side downward, the fork in a very
slanting position, and your fore-finger extended far down upon its
handle. When you have done cutting up what you are going to eat, lay
aside your knife, transfer the fork to your right hand, and take a small
piece of bread in your left. If eating any thing soft, use your silver
fork somewhat as a spoon, turning up the hollow side that the cavity may
hold the food. If engaged in talking, do not, meanwhile, hold your fork
bolt upright, but incline it downward, so as to be nearly on a level
with your plate. Remember, always, to keep your own knife, fork, and
spoon out of the dishes. It is an insult to the company, and a disgrace
to yourself, to dip into a dish any thing that has been even for a
moment in your mouth. To take butter or salt with your own knife is an
abomination. There is always a butter-knife and a salt-spoon. It is
nearly as bad to take a lump of sugar with your fingers.

In eating bread at dinner, break off little bits, instead of putting the
whole piece to your mouth and biting at it.

No lady looks worse than when gnawing a bone, even of game or poultry.
Few _ladies_ do it. In fact, nothing should be sucked or gnawed in
public; neither corn bitten off from the cob, nor melon nibbled from
the rind.[13] It is very ungraceful to eat an orange at table, unless,
having cut a bit off the top, you eat the inside with a
tea-spoon--otherwise reserve it for the privacy of your own room. Always
pare apples and peaches; and crack no nuts with your teeth. In eating
cherries, put your half-closed hand before your mouth to receive the
stones; then lay them on one side of your plate. To spit out the stones
one at a time as you proceed with the cherries is very ungenteel. Get
rid of plumb-stones in the same manner.

Do not eat incongruous and unsuitable things from the same plate,
telling the waiter that "he need not change it, as it will do very
well." The washing of a plate (more or less) is no object whatever in a
large establishment, and it is expected that the guests will have clean
ones very frequently.

It is an affectation of ultra-fashion to eat pie with a fork, and has a
very awkward and inconvenient look. Cut it up first with your knife and
fork both; then proceed to eat it with the fork in your right hand.

Much of this determined fork-exercise may be considered foolish. But it
is fashionable.

If a lady wishes to eat lobster, let her request the waiter that attends
her, to extract a portion of it from the shell, and bring it to her on a
clean plate--also to place a castor near her.

Novices in lobster sometimes eat it simply with salt, or with vinegar
only, or with black pepper. This betrays great ignorance of the article.
To prepare it according to the usual custom,--cut up, very small, the
pieces of lobster, and on another plate make the dressing. First, mash
together some hard-boiled yolk of egg, and some of the red coral of the
lobster, with a little salt and cayenne. Mix in, with a fork, mustard to
your taste; and then a liberal allowance of salad-oil, finishing with
vinegar. Transfer the bits of lobster to the plate that has the
dressing, and combine the whole with a fork. Lettuce salad is dressed in
the same manner.

At a public table, a lady should never volunteer to dress salad for
others of the company. Neither should she cut up a pie, and help it
round. These things ought only to be done by a gentleman, or a servant.

If a gentleman with whom you are acquainted has dressed a salad, and
offers the plate to you, take what you want, and immediately return to
him the remainder; and do not pass it on to persons in your vicinity. It
is _his_ privilege, and not _yours_ to offer it to others, as he has had
the trouble of dressing it. And it is just that he should have a portion
of it for himself, which will not be the case if you officiously hand it
about to people around you. Leave it to him to dispose of as he pleases.

It was formerly considered ill-manners to refuse to take wine with a
gentleman. Now that the fortunate increase of temperance has induced so
many persons to abjure, entirely, the use of all liquors, it is no
longer an offence to decline these invitations. If you have no
conscientious scruples, and if you are acquainted with the gentleman, or
have been introduced to him, (not else,) you may comply with his
civility, and when both glasses are filled, look at him, bow your head,
and taste the wine. If you are placed between a lady and gentleman who
are taking wine together, lean back a little that they may see each
other's faces. It is not customary, in America, for a lady to empty her
glass,--or indeed, at a hotel, or boarding-house, to take wine with the
same gentleman after the first day. Next time he asks, politely refuse,
simply desiring him to excuse you. If he is a true gentleman, he will
regard your refusal in its proper light, and not persist. We have often,
at a public table, regretted to see ladies in the daily practice of
taking wine with the same gentleman as often as invited. This "daily
practice" is improper, indelicate, and we will say mean--for wine is
expensive, and no lady should every day place herself under the same
obligation to the same gentleman, even for a single glass. He will not
respect her the more for doing so. On no consideration let any lady be
persuaded to take _two_ glasses of champagne. It is more than the head
of an _American_ female can bear. And she may rest assured that (though
unconscious of it herself) all present will find her cheeks flushing,
her eyes twinkling, her tongue unusually voluble, her talk loud and
silly, and her laugh incessant. Champagne is very insidious; and two
glasses may throw her into this pitiable condition.

If a stranger whom you do not know, and to whom you have had no
introduction, takes the liberty of asking you to drink wine with him,
refuse at once, positively and coldly, to prove that you consider it an
unwarrantable freedom. And so it is.

If you are helped to any thing whose appearance you do not like, or in
which you are disappointed when you taste it, you, of course, at a hotel
table, are not obliged to eat it. Merely leave it on your plate, without
audibly giving the reason; and then, in a low voice, desire the waiter
to bring you something else. It is well, while at table, to avoid any
discussion of the demerits of the dishes. On the other hand, you may
praise them as much as you please.

In refusing to be helped to any particular thing, never give as a reason
that "you are afraid of it," or "that it will disagree with you." It is
sufficient simply to _refuse_; and then no one has a right to ask why?
While at table, all allusions to dyspepsia, indigestion, or any other
disorders of the stomach, are vulgar and disgusting. The word "stomach"
should never be uttered at any table, or indeed anywhere else, except to
your physician, or in a private conversation with a female friend
interested in your health. It is a disagreeable word, (and so are all
its associations,) and should never be mentioned in public to "ears
polite." Also, make no remarks on what is eaten by persons near you,
(except they are children, and under your own care,) such as its being
unwholesome, indigestible, feverish, or in any way improper. It is no
business of yours; and besides, you are not to judge of others by
yourself. No two constitutions are alike, and what is very bad for
_you_, may be perfectly innoxious to others. If persons are with you in
whom you are much interested, and over whom you have influence, and they
seem inclined to eat what is bad for them, refrain from checking them in
presence of strangers. Above all, do not open your eyes, and hold up
your hands, and exclaim against their folly, and want of self-control,
and predict their certain sufferings from that cause. But if you _must_
remonstrate, wait till you have quitted the table, and find yourself
alone with the delinquent.

Never, while at table, (whether in public or private,) allow yourself to
talk on painful or disgusting subjects. Avoid all discussions of
sicknesses, sores, surgical operations, dreadful accidents, shocking
cruelties, or horrible punishments. A love of such topics, evinces a
coarse and unfeminine mind. It is rude in gentlemen at any time to
introduce them before ladies; and a polished man never does so. The
conversation at table should be as cheerful and pleasant as possible.
Political and sectarian controversies ought to have no place there.
Shakspeare truly says, "Unquiet meals make ill digestion."

Avoid the discussion at table of private affairs; either your own, or
those of other people. Remember that "servants have ears," and
frequently much more quickness of comprehension and retentiveness of
memory than is generally supposed. So have children.

Abstain from picking your teeth at table. Notwithstanding that custom
has allowed this practice in Europe, (even in fashionable society,) it
is still a very disagreeable one, and to delicate spectators absolutely
sickening to behold. Delay it till you are alone, and till you can
indulge in it without witnesses. We know that it is quite possible to go
on through a long life, and to have clean teeth, without ever once
having been _seen_ to pick them; and yet those teeth are really picked
after every meal.

Should you chance to be extremely incommoded by some extraneous
substance that has gotten between your teeth, you can remove it
unperceived, by holding up your napkin or handkerchief before your
mouth, so as effectually to conceal the process. When you take any thing
out of your teeth, do not make the persons who are near you sick, by
laying the disgusting particle on the side of your plate; but conceal it
immediately. Still, nothing but "sheer necessity" can excuse any
teeth-picking at table.

We have seen a young _lady_, at a very fashionable house in one of our
great cities, pull a dish of stewed oysters close to her, and with a
table-spoon fish out and eat the oysters one at a time; audibly sipping
up their liquor from the said dish.

We have seen a young _gentleman_ lift his plate of soup in both hands,
hold it to his mouth and drink, or rather lap it up. This was at no less
a place than Niagara.

We have heard of a well-dressed stranger at a great hotel in Boston, who
having used his own knife for the butter, flew into a violent passion
with the waiter for respectfully pointing out to him the silver
butter-knife. Swearing that the knife he had been putting in his mouth
was quite good enough, afterward, for any butter in the world, the
_gentleman_ flung the silver knife across the table, and broke it
against the wall. For this exploit he had to pay five dollars.

A man that habitually rises on his feet to reach across the table for a
dish, and pulls it to himself, instead of desiring the waiter to bring
it to him, is unworthy the appellation of a gentleman. Ladies, of
course, cannot be guilty of this abomination; but it is true that they
sometimes extend their arms entirely too far, in trying to get at
something which a servant would bring them if asked to do so.

Some persons behave coarsely at a public table because they are
ignorant, and know no better. Some (far less excusable) are rude because
they are too selfish to put any restraint on their inclinations, or to
care for the convenience of others.

Some display, all the time, a vulgar determination to "get the full
worth of their money." Some, who at a _private_ dinner-table would be
the most polite people imaginable, lay aside their good manners in a
_public_ dining-room; regarding a hotel as they would a tavern--a sort
of Liberty Hall. And some are insolent by way of "showing their
consequence,"--having, in reality, mixed so little with _true_ people of
consequence, as not to be aware that persons of high station are, with
few exceptions, entirely free from the assumption of undue importance.

Servants are often very shrewd observers, and they always say that real
gentlefolks "never take airs." Neither they do.

When the finger-glasses are sent round, dip a clean corner of your
napkin into the water, and wet round your lips with it, but omit the
disgusting foreign fashion of taking water into your mouth, rinsing and
gurgling it round, and then spitting it back into the glass. Wait till
you can give your mouth a regular and efficient washing up-stairs. Dip
your fingers into the glass, rub them with the slice of lemon, or the
orange-leaf that may be floating on the surface, and then wipe them on
the napkin. We have heard of a man who saw finger-glasses for the first
time in his life, when dining at one of the New York hotels. A slice of
lemon floating on the top, he took up the bowl and drank the water,
exclaiming as he set it down--"Well! if this isn't the poorest lemonade
I ever tasted!"

On quitting the table, it is not necessary to fold up your napkin.
Merely lay it on the table near your plate. The napkins will be
immediately collected by the servants, carried to the laundry, and
thrown at once into tubs of water, to take out the stains.

When dinner is over, and you see that nearly all the company, except two
or three, have left the table, it is not well to be one of that two or
three, and to remain to an indefinite period, loitering over the last
pickings of a plate of nuts--nut-picking being always a tedious
business. The waiters are, by this time, very tired of standing, and
they (like all other people) are entitled to some consideration of their
comfort. Even the attraction of a beau drinking his wine beside her,
ought not to induce a young lady to outstay all the company, with the
pretext of being passionately fond of nuts. She may indulge this passion
at any time by keeping a bag of them in her own room.

The English travellers who visit America are often right in their
remarks on many of our customs. And instead of resenting these remarks,
we might profit by them, and reform.

For instance, it is true that the generality of Americans eat too fast,
for their own health, and the comfort of those about them; masticating
their food very slightly, and not allowing themselves time enough to
enjoy their meals. The French, however, eat faster still, and can
dispatch a surprising quantity of food in less time than any people in
the civilized world. If we pattern after either nation in the customs of
the table, the _genteel_ English are far better models than most of
their neighbours across the Channel. But the best class of Americans are
unsurpassed in the essentials of all these observances. The English
attach too much importance to ceremonies merely conventional, and for
which there seems no motive but the ever-changing decrees of fashion.
Yet, on going to England, let every American lady take care to make
herself acquainted with these ceremonies; for her ignorance of them will
find no quarter there--and she need not flatter herself that it will be
passed over unnoticed.

In most hotels it is not customary to have hot cakes or any warm dishes
on the tea-table, except in cold weather. We think, in a summer
afternoon, they can be easily dispensed with, and that ladies might be
satisfied with sweet cakes, fruit, preserves, and other things more
delicate, and more suited to the hour, than the hot preparations they
sometimes call for; and which, by not seeing them on the table, they may
be assured do not come within scope of the tea-arrangements. It is
expecting too much to suppose the cook will be willing to mix
batter-cakes and bake them, or to scorch over the fire with broiling or
stewing relishes, in a warm summer evening--or even to make toast,
except for an invalid. Also, every one should know that a substantial
meal (including tea and coffee) can generally be had at the nine o'clock
supper-table. In houses where there is no nine o'clock supper, the
tea-table is set out with greater profusion and variety.

At hotels, the interval between dinner and tea is usually short; the
tea-hour being early, that the guests may have ample time to prepare for
going to places of amusement. Yet there are ladies who, though spending
all the evening at home, will remain sitting idly in the parlour till
eight o'clock, (or later still,) keeping the table standing and servants
waiting in attendance, that they may have a better appetite, and be able
to make a heartier meal at their tea. This is selfish and inconsiderate,
particularly as they might easily wait a little longer, and take their
tea or coffee at the supper-table. Their appetites would then be still
better. The servants certainly require rest, and should be exempt from
all attendance in the ladies' eating-room, for an hour or two in the
evening.

No lady can remain long in the drawing-room talking to a gentleman
after all the rest have retired for the night, without subjecting
herself to remarks which it would greatly annoy her to hear--whether
merited or not. Neither is it well for her to be seen continually
sitting at the same window with the same gentleman.

Ladies and gentlemen who wish to hold private dialogues, should not for
that purpose monopolize a centre-table; thereby preventing persons who
wish to read from availing themselves of the light of the chandelier
above it. Lovers who have proper consideration, (a rare occurrence,)
always sit as far as possible from the rest of the company, and so they
should--unless they can bring themselves to join in general
conversation. That is, if the lovership is real. In many cases the
semblance is only assumed to produce effect, and the talk has really
nothing secret or mysterious about it, and might just as well be uttered
audibly.

In making acquaintance with a stranger at a hotel, there is no
impropriety (but quite the contrary) in enquiring of her from what place
she comes. In introducing yourself give your name _audibly_; or what is
still better, if you have a card about you, present that; and she should
do the same in return. Before you enter into conversation on any subject
connected with religion, it will be well to ask her to what church she
belongs. This knowledge will guard you from indulging, inadvertently, in
sectarian remarks which may be displeasing to her, besides producing a
controversy which may be carried too far, and produce ill-feeling
between the parties. We have known the mere question, "Have you been to
church to-day?" when asked of a stranger at a Sunday dinner-table, bring
on a dialogue of great asperity, and very annoying to the hearers. As it
cannot possibly concern yourself whether the strangers at a hotel have
been to church or not, or what church they have visited, omit
catechising them at table on this or any other religious subject. We
have never known a clergyman guilty of this solecism in good sense and
good manners.

When you give a gratuity to a servant--for instance, to the man who
waits on you at table, or he that attends your room, or to the
chambermaid or the errand-boy--give it at no regular time, but whenever
you think proper, or find it convenient. It is injudicious to allow them
to suppose that they are to do you no particular service without being
immediately paid for it. It renders them mercenary, rapacious, and
neglectful of other boarders who are less profuse; not reflecting that
the servants are hired to wait on the company, and are paid wages for
doing so, by the proprietor of the establishment, and that it is
therefore their duty to him, and to his guests, to exert themselves so
to give satisfaction. Still, it is right and customary to pay them extra
for conveying your baggage up and down stairs when you are departing
from the house or returning to it. Carrying heavy baggage is very hard
work even for strong men. If you are a permanent boarder, and from
ill-health require extra attendance, it is well to give a certain sum
monthly to each of the servants who wait upon you; and then they will
not expect any thing more, except on extraordinary occasions. And to
each of them, separately, give the money with your own hand. In short,
whatever you give to any one, (servants or others,) it is safest, when
convenient, to bestow it in person. There will then be no mistakes, no
forgettings, and no temptation to embezzlement.

If you live in Philadelphia, you will find it very convenient, in most
cases, to send messages by a note with a stamp on it, put into the
city-post. There is a mail-bag and a letter-box at all hotels, and at
most of the large boarding-houses. The errand-boy of the hotel carries
parcels, and takes such messages as require an _immediate_ answer. For a
distance of any consequence, he will expect from twelve to twenty-five
cents. For little errands in the immediate neighbourhood, less will
suffice. When a servant brings you small change, do not tell him to keep
it. It is giving him the bad habit of expecting it always; and at times
when you may have occasion, yourself, for that very change. It is the
worst way of feeing them. On leaving the house, and at Christmas, it is
customary to give a fee rather larger than usual, to the servants who
have been your attendants. But as we have said before, give it with your
own hands.

It is ungenerous and most unjustifiable to bribe the servants to neglect
other boarders, (whose place is near yours,) for the purpose of their
bestowing on you a double share of attention. It is taking an undue
advantage, which in the end will come out badly.

All persons who go to hotels are not able to lavish large and frequent
gratuities on the servants. But all, for the price they pay to the
proprietor, are entitled to an ample share of attention from the
domestics.

It is very mean and unlady-like to gossip secretly with the servants,
and question them about any of the other guests. Still worse, to repeat
what they tell you, and give _them_ as authority. Treat them always with
kindness and civility, but have no confidential and familiar intercourse
with them. To those you know, it is but common civility to bid good
morning every day. Coloured people you may always gratify by saying a
few words to them, now and then, in passing. They value this little
kindness, and will not presume upon it like those from "the old
country," who, if treated familiarly, will frequently take liberties,
and lose all respect for you. Elderly coloured people, (particularly in
the South,) like much to be called "aunt" or "uncle;" and it degrades no
white lady to please them by doing so.

In all hotels, it is against the rule to take out of the ladies'
drawing-room any books that may be placed there for the general
convenience of the company, such as dictionaries, guide-books,
directories, magazines, &c. If you borrow a file of newspapers from the
reading-room, get done with them as soon as you can, lest they should be
wanted there by the gentlemen; and as soon as you have finished, ring
for a servant to carry them back.

Be careful, in cold weather, always to shut the parlour-doors after
you. If you think the room too warm, do not throw open either door or
window, without first enquiring if it will cause inconvenience to any
one present. It is a good practice to carry a pocket fan even in winter,
in case you should chance to feel the heat more sensibly than any other
lady in the room. If the heat of the grate causes you inconvenience,
enquire if there is any objection to having the blower brought in and
stood up before it. If not, ring the bell and order it.

If you have an anthracite fire in your chamber, and wish to extinguish
it on retiring for the night, take the tongs, and lifting off some of
the largest coals from the top, lay them beneath the grate. Then, with
the shut-tongs or the poker, make a deep hollow in the centre of the
fire; raking it into two hills, one on each side, leaving a valley down
in the middle. It will begin to blacken immediately, and go out in a few
minutes. If you cannot do this yourself, ring for a servant.

This is _the only way_ to put out an anthracite fire, whether in a grate
or a stove.--There is no other. Try it.

 A whisperer usually betrays herself by unconsciously fixing her
eyes on the person she is secretly talking of. If you wish to inform
your neighbour that a distinguished person is present say softly, "Mr.
C. is here, but do not look at him just now."

It is, however, customary in eating sweet potatoes of a large size,
to break them in two, and taking a piece in your hand, to pierce down to
the bottom with your fork, and then mix in some butter, continuing to
hold it thus while eating it.




SHIP-BOARD.


There are few places where the looks and manners of the company are more
minutely scanned than on ship-board; and few where the agreeability of a
lady will be more highly appreciated. There is little or no variety of
objects to attract attention. The passengers are brought so closely into
contact with each other, and confined to so small a neighbourhood, or
rather so many neighbours are crowded into so small a space, that all
their sayings and doings are noticed with unusual attention, by those
who are well enough to regard any thing but themselves. Sea-sickness is
a very selfish malady,--and no wonder that it is so. Fortunately it is
less prevalent than formerly, thanks to the improvements in cabin-room,
ventilation, lodging, food, and many other things connected with
ocean-travelling. A lady who is not of a bilious or dyspeptic habit, and
who has taken precautionary medicine a few days before commencing the
voyage, frequently escapes sea-sickness altogether; or at least gets
well after the first day or two.

It is best not to be over-officious in offering your aid to the sick
ladies, unless they are your intimate friends. The stewardess of a
packet-ship is generally all-sufficient; and much more capable of
attending to their wants than you can be. Sea-sickness renders its
victims very querulous; and few like to be continually reminded of their
condition by enquiries too often repeated of--"How do you find yourself
now?" "Do you feel any better?" or, "Do you think you could not eat
something?" To one very much prostrated by the effects of the
sea-motion, the mere replying to these questions is an additional
misery. Whatever sympathy you may feel, at the time, for those afflicted
with the marine malady, remember that it is a disorder which never
kills, but very frequently cures.

If you are sick yourself, say as little about it as possible. And never
allude to it at table, where you will receive little sympathy, and
perhaps render yourself disgusting to all who hear you. At no time talk
about it to gentlemen. Many foolish common-place sayings are uttered by
ladies who attempt to describe the horrors of sea-sickness. For instance
this--"I felt all the time as if I wished somebody to take me up, and
throw me overboard." This is untrue--no human being ever really _did_
prefer drowning to sea-sickness.

When the ship is actually in danger, this malady is always frightened
away; the feelings of the mind entirely overpowering those of the body.

Try to avoid supposing that every fresh gale is a violent storm; but
confide in the excellence of the ship, and the skill of its navigators.
Yet, though not afraid yourself, remember that others may be so, and do
not try to show your courage by indulging in undue gayety. Mirth is out
of place when the sky is overcast with gloom, the wind blowing hard, and
the waves "running mountains high," and foaming and roaring all round
the vessel.

If there is truly a violent tempest, and if the danger is real and
imminent, trust to that Almighty Power who is with you always,--on the
sea, and on the land; and silently and fervently implore his protection.

No captain likes to be teazed with importunities concerning the probable
length of the passage. You may be sure he will do all he can to make it
as short as possible. In rough weather, refrain from asking, whenever
you see him, "If there is any danger?" If there really is, he will
certainly let you know it in time.

Endeavour to live harmoniously with your fellow-passengers. Avoid such
national allusions as may give offence to the foreigners. If you find
that any of them are in the frequent practice of sneering at your own
country, or speaking of it disrespectfully, repress your resentment,
resort to no recrimination, but refrain from further conversation with
that individual, and leave him to the gentlemen. If a female foreigner
is in the habit of gratuitously abusing America, endeavour calmly to
convince her that her ideas of your country are erroneous. If she will
not be convinced, (as is most likely, if she is an _ungenteel_
Englishwoman,) give up the attempt, and leave her to herself. If you
have a taste for the ridiculous, you will regard her prejudices and the
expression of them only as objects of amusement.

Avoid all arguments with a woman of irritable disposition, lest you are
drawn in yourself to defend your opinion too warmly. You will soon find
whether or not you can convince her, or whether she is likely to
convince you. And it is worse than useless for both to continue
protracting the argument, when they know that the opinion of neither
will be shaken. Also, it is foolish to keep on repeating the same ideas,
with no change but in a few of the words.

Long and turbulent discussions are peculiarly annoying on ship-board,
particularly in rainy weather, when for the weary and pent-up audience,
"there's no door to creep out."

It is certainly advisable for every lady on ship-board to endeavour to
make herself as agreeable as she can, and not to suppose that all her
"whims and oddities" will be excused because she is suffering "the pains
and penalties" of the sea, and is therefore not "a responsible being."
If free from sickness, a lady may propose or promote many pleasant
little amusements and occupations; such as playing children's games on
deck, or taking a part in chess, chequers, and backgammon in the cabin.
Ladies sometimes form a regular little coterie, for assembling at
certain hours, and employing themselves in knitting, bead-work,
light-sewing, &c. while a gentleman reads aloud to them in some
entertaining book. In the evening, vocal concerts will be an agreeable
variety, as there are always some persons on board who can sing. And
when the weather is fine, and the ship steadily laying her course, a
moonlight dance on deck is delightful.

A young lady should improve the opportunity of learning the names of the
principal parts of the ship. It is a silly boast at the end of the
voyage, (and yet we have heard such boasts,) to say that you do not know
the fore-mast from the main-mast; and that you have no idea where the
mizen-mast is, much less the bow-sprit. And even if a fair damsel should
be able to distinguish the fore-topsail from the jib, and to know even
the flying-jib, and have learnt the difference between the compass and
the quadrant, and the log-line and the lead-line, we opine that "the
gentlemen" will think none the worse of her; to say nothing of the
satisfaction it will afford herself to listen with some comprehension to
talk concerning the ship, and to read understandingly a few of the
numerous excellent novels that treat of "life on the ocean wave."

If you have, unfortunately, the rude and unamiable habit of laughing
whenever you see any one get a fall, leave it off when on
ship-board,--where falls are of continual occurrence from the rolling of
the vessel, and the steepness of the stairs. We never could tell why a
fall, even on the ice, should be regarded as a subject of mirth, when
the chance is that it may produce a serious hurt, and is always attended
with some pain or some annoyance at least. Low-bred women always say
they cannot help laughing at such sights. We think _ladies_ ought always
to help it, and hasten at once to the relief of the sufferer, to
ascertain if they are hurt.

Be washed and dressed _neatly_ every day. This can generally be managed
with the assistance of the female servants--even if you _are_ sick.

A piano never sounds well on ship-board--the cabins are too small, and
the ceilings too low. To the sick and nervous, (and all who are sea-sick
become _very_ nervous,) this instrument is peculiarly annoying.
Therefore be kind enough to spare them the annoyance. You can practise
when the weather is fine; and the invalids are on deck. Pianos have been
abolished in many of the finest ships. Such instruments as can be
carried on deck, and played in the open air, are, on the contrary, very
delightful at sea, when in the hands of good performers--particularly on
a moonlight evening.

In going to England, take with you no American reprints of English
books, unless you intend leaving them on board the ship. If you attempt
to land them, they will be seized at the custom-house. American books by
American authors are _not_ prohibited.

Make no attempt to smuggle any thing. You may be detected and disgraced.
The risk is too great, and the advantage too little.

When you leave your state-room to sit in the ladies' cabin, do not fall
to relating the particulars of your sickness, or complaining of the
smallness of your apartment, the rolling of the ship, or the roughness
of the waves. These inconveniences are unavoidable, and must always be
expected in a sea-voyage; and talking about them too much seems to
magnify their evils.

If there is any deficiency in accommodations or attentions, either try
as well as you can to do without them, or in a kind and considerate
manner endeavour to obtain them of the servants, if not too
inconvenient, or against the ship's regulations.

It is very inconsiderate to have things cooked at luncheon time
purposely for yourself. Ladies who are quite well will sometimes order
baked apples, stewed prunes, buttered toast, arrow-root, cups of tea or
coffee, &c.,--notwithstanding that the lunch-table is always profusely
spread with a variety of cold articles; and that when dinner is cooking
at the same time, the small size of the kitchen renders any extra
preparations very inconvenient to the preparers.



LETTERS.


The practice of enclosing letters in envelopes is now universal;
particularly as when the letter is single no additional postage is
charged for the cover. The postage now is in almost every instance
pre-paid, it being but three cents when paid by the writer, and five if
left to the receiver. Therefore, none but very poor or very mean people
send unpaid letters. Letter-stamps for the United States post should be
kept in a little box on your writing-table. You can get them always by
sending to the post-office--from a dollar's worth or more, down to fifty
or twenty-five cents' worth, at a time. In a second box, keep stamps for
the city or penny post, which transmits notes from one part of the town
to another. And in a third, stamps to go on the covers of newspapers.

Sealing with wax is found to be very insecure for letters that are
carried by steamers into warm climates--the wax melting with the heat,
and sticking the letters to each other, so that they cannot be separated
without tearing. Wafers are better.

It would be very convenient to use the post-office stamp as a seal, but
the clerks in that establishment charge extra postage for the trouble of
turning the letter to mark the stamp. This subjects the receiver to the
payment of two additional cents.

In writing upon business exclusively your own, for instance to make a
request, to ask for information, to petition for a favour, or to solicit
an autograph, it is but right not only to pay the postage of your own
letter, but to enclose a stamp for the answer. This is always done by
really polite and considerate people. You have no right, when the
benefit is entirely your own, to cause any extra expense to the receiver
of the letter--not even the cost of three cents to pay the postage back
again. It is enough to tax their time by requiring them to write to you
and send off the reply. Also, in corresponding with a relative, or very
intimate friend, to whom even a small expense is of more importance than
to yourself, you may enclose a stamp for the answer. Do so always in
writing to poor people. Be careful not to allow yourself to get entirely
out of post-office stamps. Replenish your stock in time. If the gum on
the back seems too weak, go over it afresh with that excellent cement,
"Perpetual Paste." Embossed or bordered envelopes are not often used
except in notes of ceremony--or when the acquaintance is slight. The
same with ornamented note-paper. Intimate friends and relatives use
paper that is handsome, but plain. Letters of business are generally
enclosed in yellow or buff-coloured envelopes. Some of these yellow
envelopes are large enough to contain a folio sheet when folded. Notes
_not_ to be sent by post, are usually sealed with wax--the seal very
small. But a _small_ wafer is admissible--a white one looks best for a
note. In folding your note or letter, see that it is not too large to go
into the envelope. It is customary to write the direction on the
envelope only. Nevertheless, if the letter is to go a long distance by
post, the envelope may be worn off, or torn off accidentally, or get so
damaged in the letter-bag as to be rendered illegible. The surest and
safest way is to put the address on the letter also; or if the sheet is
full, to find a corner for the direction, either at the beginning or
end.

We have seen no _good_ letter-paper at less price than twenty-five cents
per quire; and for that it ought to be _very_ good. If of lower cost,
you may find it soft and fuzzy, so that the pen will not move freely,
(the nib wearing out directly,) or so thin that you cannot write on both
sides of the sheet. In paper, as in most other things, the best is the
cheapest. If the tint is bluish, the writing will not be so legible as
on a pure white. The surface should be smooth and glossy. For letter
writing _ruled_ paper is rarely used, except by children. In writing for
the press, no other is so convenient. A page of ruled lines to slip
beneath, is indispensable to those who cannot otherwise write straight.
They are to be had for a few cents at every stationer's. It is well to
get three different sizes. If you write a small hand, the lines should
be closer together than if your writing is large. If you are addressing
a friend and have much to say, and expect to fill the sheet, begin very
near the top of the first page. But if your letter is to be a short one,
commence lower down, several inches from the top. If a _very_ short
letter of only a few lines, begin but a little above the middle of the
page. Crossing a letter all over with transverse lines is obsolete. It
is intolerable to read, and there is no excuse for it now, when postage
is so low, and every body pays their own.

Write the date near the right-hand side of the first page, and place it
about two lines higher than the two or three words of greeting or
accosting with which letters usually commence. Begin the first sentence
a little below those words, and farther toward the right than the lines
that are to follow. It is well in dating _every_ letter to give always
your exact residence--that is, not only the town you live in, but the
number and street. If your correspondent has had _but one_ notification
of your present place of abode, she may have forgotten the number, and
even the street. Your letter containing it may not be at hand as a
reference, and the answer may, in consequence, be misdirected--or
directed in so vague a manner that it will never reach you. We have
known much inconvenience (and indeed loss) ensue from not specifying
with the date of _each_ letter the exact dwelling-place of the writer.
But if it is _always_ indicated at the top of _every one_, a reference
to _any_ one of your letters will furnish your proper address. If you
are in the country, where there are no streets or numbered houses, give
the name of the estate and that of the nearest post-town; also the
county and state. All this will occupy a long line, but you will find
the advantage. If your letter fills more than one sheet, number each
page. Should you have no envelope, leave, on the inside of the third
page, two blank spaces where the seal is to come. These spaces should be
left rather too large than too small. Lest you should tear the letter in
_breaking_ it open, it is best to _cut_ round the seal. We have seen
letters that were actually illegible from the paleness of the ink. If
you write from your own house this is inexcusable, as you ought always
to be _well_ supplied with that indispensable article; and in a city you
can easily send to a stationer's and buy it. It is still better to make
it yourself; than which nothing is more easy. The following receipt _we
know, by experience, to be superlative_. Try it.

Buy at a druggist's four ounces of the best blue Aleppo nut-galls; half
an ounce of green copperas; and half an ounce of clean, white
gum-arabic. These three articles must be pulverized in a mortar. Put
them into a large, clean, white-ware pitcher, and pour on a quart of
boiling water. Stir the whole with a stick that will reach to the
bottom, and set the pitcher in a warm place; covering it lightly with a
folded newspaper. In about an hour, stir it again very hard; and repeat
the stirring several times during the day. Let it remain in the pitcher
several days, or a week, till it becomes an excellent black; the
blackening will be accelerated by keeping the pitcher in the sun; for
instance, in a sunny balcony. Stir it, down to the bottom, two or three
times a day--always with a stick. Use nothing of metal in making this
ink. When it is very black, and writes well, pour it off carefully from
the bottom, (which must have rested undisturbed for two or three hours
previous,) passing it through a funnel into pint-bottles. Before you
cork them, put into each a large tea-spoonful of brandy, to prevent
moulding, or a few drops of lavender. A small tea-spoonful of cloves,
(slightly broken,) placed in the bottom of each bottle, before the ink
is poured in, will answer the same purpose. Scouring the pitcher with
soap and sand, after throwing away the dregs of the ink, will completely
clear off the stains.

Ink-stands should be washed out, before they are filled anew.

There is no ink superior to this in blackness or smoothness. You can
make it at less than half the cost of that which you buy in the shops.
It looks blacker the next day after using, and never fades. If it
becomes rather too thick, dilute it slightly with water, and stir it
down to the bottom.

Never use _blue_ ink. If the letter chances to get wet, the writing will
be effaced. Serious losses have resulted from business letters being
written in blue ink.

If you make a mistake in a word, draw your pen through it, or score it
so as to be quite illegible, and then interline the correction, placing
a caret beneath. This will be better than scratching out the error with
your penknife, and afterward trying to write a new word in the identical
place; an attempt which rarely succeeds, even with the aid of
pounce-powder, which is pulverized gum-sandarac.

At the end of the letter, somewhat lower than your signature, (which
should be very near the right-hand edge of the page,) add the name and
address of the person for whom the letter is designed, and to whom it
will thus find its way, even if the envelope should be defaced, or torn
off and lost. Write your own name rather larger than your usual hand,
and put a dot or dash after it.

Some of the ensuing paragraphs are taken (with permission of the
publisher) from a former work of the author's.

In folding a letter, let the breadth (from left to right) far exceed the
height. A letter folded tall is ridiculous, and one verging towards
squareness looks very awkward. It is well to use a folder (or
paper-knife) to press along the edges of the folds, that they may be
smooth and straight. If one is looser than another, or if there is the
slightest narrowing in, or widening out, toward the edge of the
turn-over, the letter will have an irregular, unsightly appearance.
Pieces of ruled lines may be so cut that you can slip them under the
back of a letter after it is folded, and then you will be in no danger
of writing the direction crooked, or uneven.

Write the name of your correspondent about the middle of the back, and
very clearly and distinctly. Then give the number and street on the next
line, a little nearer to the right. Then the town in _large_ letters,
extending still nearer to the right. If a country-town, give next (in
letters a little smaller) the name of the _county_ in which it is
situated. This is very necessary, as in some of our states there is more
than one town of the same name, and "Washingtons" all over the Union.
Lastly, at the very bottom, and close to the right, indicate the state
or district by its usual abbreviation,--for instance, _Me._ for
Maine[14]--_N. H._ New Hampshire--_Vt._ Vermont--_Mass._
Massachusetts--_R. I._ Rhode Island--_Ct._ or _Conn._ Connecticut--_N.
Y._ New York--_N. J._ New Jersey--_Pa._ or _Penna._ Pennsylvania--_Del._
Delaware--_Md._ Maryland--_Va._ Virginia--_N. C._ North Carolina--_S.
C._ South Carolina--_Ga._ or _Geo._ Georgia--_Ala._ Alabama--_Miss._
Mississippi--_Mo._ Missouri--_La._ Louisiana--_Tenn._ Tennessee--_Ky._
Kentucky--_O._ Ohio--_Ind._ Indiana--_Ill._ Illinois--_Mich._
Michigan--_Ark._ Arkansas--_Wis._ Wisconsin--_Io._ Iowa--_Tex._
Texas--_Flo._ Florida--_Cal._ California--_Or._ Oregon--_Minn._
Minnesota--_Utah_--_D. C._ District of Columbia.

To these may be added the abbreviations of the British possessions in
North America: _U. C._ Upper Canada--_L. C._ Lower Canada--_N. S._ Nova
Scotia--_N. B._ New Brunswick--_N. P._ New Providence.

In directing a letter to a foreign country, give the whole name, as
France, Spain, Belgium, England, Ireland, Scotland, &c. We have towns in
America called after all manner of European towns. For instance, a
letter directed to our Havre-de-Grace, might, if Maryland was not
designated, find its way to Havre-de-Grace in France; Rome in the state
of New York might be taken to Rome in Italy,--York in Pennsylvania to
York in England, &c. We know an instance of a gentleman directing an
important letter to Boston, and, forgetting to add _Mass._ (for
Massachusetts) at the bottom, the letter actually went from Philadelphia
to the small town of Boston in Lincolnshire, England. In writing _from_
Europe, finish the direction with the words _United States of North
America_.

When you send a letter by a private opportunity, (a thing which is
already almost obsolete since the days of cheap postage,) it will be
sufficient to introduce very near the lower edge of the left-hand corner
of the back, simply the name of the gentleman who carries it, written
small. It is now considered old-fashioned to insert on the back of such
a letter--"Politeness of Mr. Smith"--"Favoured by Mr. Jones"--"Honoured
by Mr. Brown." If the letter is to cross the sea, by mail or otherwise,
write the name of the vessel on the left-hand corner of the outside.

When a letter is to go to New York city, always put the words New York
_in full_, (and not N. Y.), written large. Much confusion is caused by
the name of this state and its metropolis being the same. It has been
well-suggested that the name of the state of New York should be changed
to Ontario--a beautiful change. In directing to any of the towns in the
state of New York, then put N. Y. after the name of the town, as Hudson,
N. Y.,--Syracuse, N. Y., &c.

In sending a letter to the metropolis of the Union, direct for
Washington, D. C.

In directing to a clergyman, put _Rev._ (Reverend) before his name. If a
bishop, _Right Reverend_. To an officer, immediately after his name put
U. S. A. for United States Army, or U. S. N. for United States
Navy--having preceded his name with _Gen._, _Col._, _Capt._, _Lieut._,
according to his rank.

The title Hon. (Honourable) is always used in directing to a member of
congress, a member of the cabinet, a judge of the supreme court, an
ambassador, or the governor of a state. For the Chief Magistrate of the
Union, you may direct simply to the President of the United States. The
term "Excellency" is now but little used.

For a gentleman holding a professorship in a university, preface his
name with _Prof._ or _Professor_. The title of "Professor" does not
really belong to all men who teach any thing, or to every man that
exhibits a show--or to mesmerists, and spiritual knockers. Do not give
it to them.

For sealing letters no light is so convenient as a wax taper in a low
stand. A lamp, or candle, may smoke or blacken the wax. To seal well,
your wax should be of the finest quality. Red wax of a bright scarlet
colour is the best. Low-priced wax consumes very fast; and when melted,
looks purplish or brownish. When going to melt sealing-wax, rest your
elbow on the table to keep your hand steady. Take the stick of wax
between your thumb and finger, and hold it a little above the light, so
that it barely touches the point of the flame. Turn the stick round
till it is equally softened on all sides. Then insert a little of the
melted wax _under_ the turn-over part of the letter, just where the seal
is to come. This will render it more secure than if the sole dependence
was on the outside seal. Or instead of this little touch of wax, you may
slip beneath the turn-over a small wafer, either white or of the same
colour as the wax. Then begin at the outer edge of the place you intend
for the seal; and move the wax in a circle, which must gradually
diminish till it terminates in the centre. Put the seal exactly to the
middle of the soft wax, and press it down hard, but do not screw it
round. Then withdraw it suddenly. Do not use motto seals unless writing
to a member of your own family, or to an intimate friend. For common
service, (and particularly for letters of business,) a plain seal, with
simply your initials, is best.

For a note always use a very small seal. In addressing one of your own
family, it is not necessary to follow scrupulously all these
observances. In writing to persons decidedly your inferiors in station,
avoid the probability of mortifying them by sending mean, ill-looking
notes.

Remember also (what, strange to say, some people calling themselves
ladies seem not to know) that a note commenced in the first person must
continue in the first person all through. The same when it begins in the
third person. We have heard of invitations to a party being worded
thus:--

     Mrs. Welford's compliments to Mrs. Marley, and requests the
     pleasure of her company on Thursday evening.

              Yours sincerely,

                                E. WELFORD.

Notes of invitation should always designate both the day of the week and
that of the month. If that of _the month only_ is specified, one figure
may perhaps be mistaken for another; for instance, the 13th may look
like the 18th, or the 25th like the 26th. We know instances where, from
this cause, some of the guests did not come till the night _after_ the
party.

There are some very sensible people who, in their invitations, tell
frankly what is to be expected, and if they really ask but _a few_
friends, they at once give the names of those friends, so that you may
know whom you are to see. If you are to meet no more than can sit round
the tea-table, they signify the same. If they expect twenty, thirty, or
forty persons, they say so--and do not leave you in doubt whether to
dress for something very like a party, or for a mere family
tea-drinking.

If it is a decided music-party, by all means specify the same, that
those who have no enjoyment of what is considered fashionable music, may
stay away.

Always reply to a note of invitation the day after you have received it.
To a note on business send an answer the same day. After accepting an
invitation, should any thing occur to prevent your going, send a second
note in due time.

Do not take offence at a friend because she does not invite you every
time she has company. Her regard for you may be as warm as ever, but it
is probably inconvenient for her to have more than a certain number at a
time. Believe that the omission is no evidence of neglect, or of a
desire to offend you; but rest assured that you are to be invited on
other occasions. If you are _not_, then indeed you may take it as a hint
that she is no longer desirous of continuing the acquaintance. Be
dignified enough not to call her to account; but cease visiting her,
without taking her to task and bringing on a quarrel. But if you _must_
quarrel, let it not be in writing. A paper war is always carried too
far, and produces bitterness of feeling which is seldom entirely
eradicated, even after apologies have been made and accepted. Still,
when an offence has been given in writing, the atonement should be made
in writing also.

Much time is wasted (particularly by young ladies) in writing and
answering such epistles as are termed "letters of friendship,"--meaning
long documents (frequently with crossed lines) filled with regrets at
absence, asseverations of eternal affection, modest deprecations of your
humble self, and enthusiastic glorifyings of your exalted correspondent;
or else wonderments at both of you being so much alike, and so very
congenial; and anticipations of rapture at meeting again, and
lamentations at the slow progress of time, till the extatic hour of
re-union shall arrive--the _postscript_ usually containing some
confidential allusion to a lover, (either real or supposed,) and
perhaps a kind enquiry about a real or supposed lover of your friend's.

Now such letters as these are of no manner of use but to foster a
sickly, morbid feeling, (very often a fictitious one,) and to encourage
nonsense, and destroy all relish for such true friendship as is good and
wholesome.

A still worse species of voluminous female correspondence is that which
turns _entirely_ upon love, or rather on what are called "beaux;" or
entirely on hate--for instance, hatred of step-mothers. This topic is
considered the more _piquant_ from its impropriety, and from its being
carried on in secret.

Then there are young ladies born with the organ of letter-writing
amazingly developed, and increased by perpetual practice, who can
scarcely become acquainted with a gentleman possessing brains, without
volunteering a correspondence with him. And then ensues a long
epistolary dialogue about nothing, or at least nothing worth reading or
remembering; trenching closely on gallantry, but still not quite _that_;
affected flippancy on the part of the lady; and unaffected impertinence
on that of the gentleman, "which serves her right"--alternating with
pretended poutings on her side, and half or whole-laughing apologies on
his. Sometimes there are attempts at moralizing, or criticising, or
sentimentalizing--but nothing is ever elicited that, to a third person,
can afford the least amusement or improvement, or excite the least
interest. Yet, strange to say, gentlemen have been inveigled into this
sort of correspondence, even by ladies who have made a business of
afterward selling the letters for publication, and making money out of
them. And such epistles have actually been printed. We do not suppose
they have been read. The public is very stubborn in refusing to read
what neither amuses, interests, or improves--even when a publisher is
actually so weak as to print such things.

No young lady ever engages in a correspondence with a gentleman that is
neither her relative or her betrothed, without eventually lessening
herself in his eyes. Of this she may rest assured. With some men, it is
even dangerous for a lady to write a note on the commonest subject. He
may show the superscription, or the signature, or both, to his idle
companions, and make insinuations much to her disadvantage, which his
comrades will be sure to circulate and exaggerate.

Above all, let no lady correspond with a married man, unless she is
obliged to consult him on business; and from that plain, straight path
let her not diverge. Even if the wife sees and reads every letter, she
will, in all probability, feel a touch of jealousy, (or more than a
touch,) if she finds that they excite interest in her husband, or give
him pleasure. This will inevitably be the case if the married lady is
inferior in intellect to the single one, and has a lurking consciousness
that she is so.

Having hinted what the correspondence of young ladies ought _not_ to be,
we will try to convey some idea of what it ought. Let us premise that
there is no danger of _any_ errors in grammar or spelling, and but few
faults of punctuation, and that the fair writers are aware that a
sentence should always conclude with a period or full stop, to be
followed by a capital letter beginning the next sentence; and that a new
paragraph should be allotted to every change of subject, provided that
there is room on the sheet of paper. And still, it is well to have
always at hand a dictionary and a grammar, in case of unaccountable
lapses of memory. However, persons who have read much, and read to
advantage, generally find themselves at no loss in orthography, grammar,
and punctuation. To spell badly is disgraceful in a lady or gentleman,
and it looks as if they had quitted reading as soon as they quitted
school.

To write a legible and handsome hand is an accomplishment not
sufficiently valued. And yet of what importance it is! We are always
vexed when we hear people of talent making a sort of boast of the
illegibility of their writing, and relating anecdotes of the difficulty
with which it has been read, and the mistakes made by its decipherers.
There are persons who affect bad writing, and boast of it, because the
worst signatures extant are those of Shakspeare, Bonaparte, and Byron.
These men were great in spite of their autographs, not because of them.
The caliph Haroun Alraschid, who was well imbued with Arabic learning,
sent an elegantly written letter to Charlemagne, with a splendid cover
and seals; not being aware that the European emperor's signature was
made by dipping his thumb into the ink and giving a smear--sealing with
the hilt of his dagger.

The "wording" of your letter should be as much like conversation as
possible, containing (in a condensed form) just what you would be most
likely to talk about if you saw your friend. A letter is of no use
unless it conveys some information, excites some interest, or affords
some improvement. It may be handsomely written, correct in spelling,
punctuation, and grammar, and yet stiff and formal in style--affectedly
didactic, and therefore tiresome--or mawkishly sentimental, and
therefore foolish. It may be refined, or high-flown in words, but flat
and barren in ideas, containing nothing that a correspondent cares to
know.

Read over each page of your letter, as you finish it, to see that there
are no errors. If you find any, correct them carefully. In writing a
familiar letter, a very common fault is tautology, or a too frequent
repetition of the same word--for instance, "Yesterday I received a
letter from sister Mary, which was the first letter I have received from
sister since she left." The sentence should be, "Yesterday I received a
letter from my sister Mary, the first since she left us."

Unless you are writing to one of your own family, put always the pronoun
"_my_" before the word "sister." Say also--"my father," "my mother," and
not "father," "mother," as if they were also the parents of your
correspondent.

To end the sentence with the word "left," (for departed,) is awkward and
unsatisfactory--for instance, "It is two days since he left." Left what?
It is one of the absurd innovations that have crept in among us of late
years, and are supposed to be fashionable. Another is the ridiculous way
of omitting the possessive S in words ending with that letter; for
instance, "Sims' Hotel" instead of "Sims's Hotel"--"Jenkins' Bakery" for
"Jenkins's Bakery." Would any one, in talking, say they had stayed at
Sims' Hotel, or that they bought their bread at Jenkins' Bakery. This is
ungrammatical, as it obliterates the possessive case, and is therefore
indefinite; and moreover, it looks and sounds awkwardly.

Many persons who think themselves good grammarians put on their cards
"The Misses Brown,"--"The Misses Smith." Those who _really_ are so,
write "The Miss Browns"--"The Miss Smiths"--the plural being always on
the substantive, and never on the adjective. Would we say "the whites
glove" instead of "the white gloves"--or the "blues ribbon" for the
"blue ribbons." Does any lady in talking say, "The two Misses Brown
called to see me?"

It is also wrong to say "two _spoons_ful," instead of two _spoon_fuls.
Thus, "two spoonsful of milk" seems to imply two separate spoons with
milk in each; while "two spoonfuls of milk" gives the true idea--one
spoon twice filled.

Avoid in writing, as in talking, all words that do not express the true
meaning. We are sorry to say that sometimes even among educated people,
when attempting smartness or wit, we find a sort of conventional slang
that has, in truth, a strong tinge of vulgarity, being the wilful
substitution of bad words or bad phrases for good ones. When we find
them issuing from the lips or the pen of a _lady_, we fear she is
unfortunate in a reprobate husband, or brother, from whom she must have
learnt them. Yet even reprobates dislike to hear their wives and sisters
talking coarsely.

Unless you know that your correspondent is well versed in French,
refrain from interlarding your letters with Gallic words or phrases.

Do not introduce long quotations from poetry. Three or four lines of
verse are sufficient. One line, or two, are better still. Write them
rather smaller than your usual hand, and leave a space at the beginning
and end; marking their commencement and termination with inverted
commas, thus " ".

One of our young relatives when seven or eight years old, tried her hand
at story-writing. In finishing the history of a naughty girl, much
addicted to falsehood, the terminating sentence ran thus:--

"Arabella did not cure herself of this fault; but when she grew up, and
became an authoress, she never marked her quotations."

If your letter is longer than can be comprised in one sheet, number the
pages, placing the number near the upper corner. If engaged in a regular
correspondence on business or other things, or in writing from a foreign
country to your family at home, number not only the pages, but the
letter itself, putting that figure in the centre at the top of the first
page. Thus, if your friend, having received No. 10, finds the next
letter that comes to hand is No. 12, she will know that No. 11 is
missing, and will tell you so in her reply. Keep a memorandum of the
letters you have sent, that you may know how to number the next. Before
commencing a long letter, it is well to put down on a slip of paper, a
list of the subjects you intend to write on.

Unless to persons living in the same house, do not enclose one letter in
another. And even then, it is not always safe to do so. Let each letter
be transmitted on its own account, by mail, with its own full direction,
and its own post-office stamp. We know an instance where the peace of a
family was entirely ruined by one of its members suppressing enclosed
letters. Confide to no one the delivery of an important letter intended
for another person. It is better to trust to the mail, and send a
duplicate by the next post.

To break the seal of a letter directed to another person is punishable
by law. To read _secretly_ the letter of another is morally as
felonious. A woman who would act thus meanly is worse than those who
apply their eyes or ears to key-holes, or door-cracks, or who listen
under windows, or look down from attics upon their neighbours; or who,
in a dusky parlour, before the lamps are lighted, ensconce themselves in
a corner, and give no note of their presence while listening to a
conversation not intended for them to hear.

We do not conceive that, unless he authorizes her to do so, (which he
had best not,) a wife is justifiable in opening her husband's letters,
or he in reading hers. Neither wife nor husband has any right to entrust
to the other the secrets of their friends; and letters may contain such
secrets. Unless under extraordinary circumstances, parents should not
consider themselves privileged to inspect the correspondence of grown-up
children. Brothers and sisters always take care that their epistles
shall not be unceremoniously opened by each other. In short, a letter is
the property of the person to whom it is addressed, and nobody has a
right to read it without permission.

If you are shown an autograph signature at the bottom of a letter, be
satisfied to look at _that only_; and do not open out, and read the
whole--unless desired.

Some years ago, in one of our most popular magazines, were several pages
containing fac-simile signatures of a number of distinguished literary
women--chiefly English. We saw an original letter, from a lady, who
complained that some mischievous person had taken _her_ magazine out of
the post-office before it reached her, and shamefully _scribbled women's
names_ in it, disfiguring it so as to render it unfit for binding;
therefore she desired the publisher to send her a clean copy in place of
it.

In putting up packets to send away, either tie them round and across,
with red tape, (sealing them also where the tape crosses,) or seal them
without any tape. If the paper is strong, the wax good, and the contents
of the parcel not too heavy, sealing will in most cases be sufficient.
Twine or cord may cut the paper, and therefore is best omitted. Never
put up a parcel in newspaper. It looks mean and disrespectful, and will
soil the articles inside.

Keep yourself provided with different sorts and sizes of wrapping-paper.

A large packet requires more than one seal; the seals rather larger than
for a letter.

Put up newspapers, for transmission, in thin whitish or brownish paper,
pasting the cover, and leaving one end open. Newspaper-stamps cost but
one cent, and are indispensable to the transmission of the paper.

Avoid giving letters of introduction to people whose acquaintance cannot
possibly afford any pleasure or advantage to those whose civilities are
desired for them, or who have not leisure to attend to strangers.
Artists, authors, and all other persons to whom "time is money," and
whose income stops whenever their hands and eyes are unemployed, are
peculiarly annoyed by the frequency of introductory letters, brought by
people with whom they can feel no congeniality, and whom they never
would have sought for. Among the children of genius, but few are in a
situation to entertain strangers _handsomely_, as it is called, which
means, _expensively_. Many are kept always in straitened circumstances,
from the incessant demands on their time and attention. And in numerous
instances, letters are asked and given with no better motive than the
gratification of idle curiosity.

We advise all persons obtaining an introductory letter to a painter, to
ascertain, before presenting it, what branch of the art he professes. We
have been asked whether a certain artist (one of the most distinguished
in London) painted "figures, flowers, or landscapes." Also, no one
should presume to request an introduction to an authoress, if they are
ignorant whether she writes prose or verse. Not that they are expected
to talk to her, immediately, on literary subjects. Far from it; but if
they know nothing of her works, they deserve no letter. In America,
books, or at least newspapers, are accessible to all who can read.

Bores are peculiarly addicted to asking letters of introduction, in
accordance with their system of "bestowing their tediousness" upon as
many people as possible. We pity the kind friends from whom these
missives are required, and who have not courage to refuse, or address
enough to excuse themselves plausibly from complying.

We have known instances of stupid, vulgar persons, on preparing to visit
another city, obtaining letters to families of the really highest class,
and receiving from them the usual civilities, which they knew not how to
appreciate.

On the other hand, how pleasant it is, by means of an introductory
letter, to bring together two kindred spirits, whose personal
intercourse must inevitably produce mutual satisfaction, who are glad to
know each other, glad to meet frequently, and grateful to the friend who
has made them acquainted.

Letters of introduction should not be sealed. To do so is rude, and
mean. If you wish to write on the same day to the same person, take
another sheet, write as long an epistle as you please, seal it, and send
it _by mail_.

It is best to deliver an introductory letter in person, as the lady or
gentleman whose civilities have been requested in your behalf, may thus
be spared the trouble of calling at your lodgings, with the risk of not
finding you at home. This is very likely to happen, if you _send_
instead of taking it yourself. If you _do_ send it, enclose a card with
your residence. Also, it is more respectful to go yourself, than to
expect them to come to you.

As soon as you are shown into the parlour, send up the letter, and wait
till the receiver comes to you.

When a letter is brought to you by a private hand, the usual ceremony is
to defer reading it till the bringer has departed, unless he desires you
to read it at once, which he will, if it is evidently a short letter. If
a long one, request him to excuse you a moment while you look at the
beginning, to see if your correspondent is well.

On farewell cards, it is usual to write with a pencil the letters "t. t.
l.," "to take leave"--or "p. p. c.," "pour prendre congé." A lady
complained to us that an acquaintance of hers, about to leave town, had
left a card for her with "p. d. a." upon it. Not understanding the
meaning of these letters, she had applied to a friend for explanation,
who told her they meant "poor dear adieu." "Now," continued she--"I
cannot understand why a mere acquaintance should be so familiar as to
call me 'poor dear;' why am I a poor dear to her?" We relieved her by
explaining that "pour dire adieu" was French for "to bid adieu."

To conclude--let nothing induce you to give a letter of introduction to
any person whose moral character is disreputable.

When the name of the state is short, you may give all the letters
that compose it, as Maine--Ohio--Iowa--Texas--Utah.


PRESENTS.


Having accepted a present, it is your duty, and ought to be your
pleasure, to let the giver see that you make use of it as intended, and
that it is not thrown away upon you. If it is an article of dress, or of
personal decoration, take occasion, on the first _suitable_ opportunity,
to wear it in presence of the giver. If an ornament for the
centre-table, or the mantel-piece, place it there. If a book, do not
delay reading it. Afterward, speak of it to her as favourably as you
can. If of fruit or flowers, refer to them the next time you see her.

In all cases, when a gift is sent to you, return a note of thanks; or at
least a verbal message to that effect.

Never enquire of the giver what was the price of her gift, or where she
bought it. To do so is considered exceedingly rude.

When an article is presented to you for a specified purpose, it is your
duty to use it for _that_ purpose, and for no other, according to the
wish of the donor. It is mean and dishonourable to give away a present;
at least without first obtaining permission from the original giver. You
have no right to be liberal or generous at the expense of another, or to
accept a gift with a secret determination to bestow it _yourself_ on
somebody else. If it is an article that you do not want, that you
possess already, or that you cannot use for yourself, it is best to say
so candidly, at once; expressing your thanks for the offer, and
requesting your friend to keep it for some other person to whom it will
be advantageous. It is fit that the purchaser of the gift should have
the pleasure of doing a kindness with her own hand, and eliciting the
gratitude of one whom she knows herself. It is paltry in you to deprive
her of this pleasure, by first accepting a present, and then secretly
giving it away as from yourself.

There are instances of women whose circumstances did not allow them to
indulge often in delicacies, that on a present of early fruit, or some
other nice thing being sent to them by a kind friend, have
ostentatiously transferred the gift to a wealthy neighbour, with a view
of having it supposed that they had bought it themselves, and that to
_them_ such things were no rarities. This is contemptible--but it is
sometimes done.

Making a valuable present to a rich person is in most cases, a work of
supererogation; unless the gift is of something rare or _unique_, which
cannot be purchased, and which may be seen and used to more advantage at
the house of your friend than while in your own possession. But to give
an expensive article of dress, jewellery, or furniture to one whose
means of buying such things are quite equal (if not superior) to your
own, is an absurdity; though not a very uncommon one, as society is now
constituted. Such gifts elicit no real gratitude, for in all
probability, they may not suit the pampered taste of those to whom fine
things are no novelties. Or they may be regarded (however unjustly) as
baits or nets to catch, in return, something of still greater cost.

There are persons, who, believing that presents are generally made with
some mercenary view, and being unwilling themselves to receive favours,
or incur obligations, make a point of repaying them as soon as possible,
by a gift of something equivalent. This at once implies that they
suspect the motive. If sincere in her friendship, the donor of the first
present will feel hurt at being directly paid for it, and consider that
she has been treated rudely, and unjustly. On the other hand, if
compensation _was_ secretly desired, and really expected, she will be
disappointed at receiving nothing in return. Therefore, we repeat, that
among persons who can conveniently provide themselves with whatever they
may desire, the bestowal of presents is generally a most unthankful
business. If you are in opulent circumstances, it is best to limit your
generosity to such friends only as do not abound in the gifts of
fortune, and whose situation denies them the means of indulging their
tastes. By them such acts of kindness will be duly appreciated, and
gratefully remembered; and the article presented will have a double
value, if it is to them a novelty.

Gratitude is a very pleasant sensation, both for those who feel and to
those who excite it. No one who confers a favour can say _with truth_,
that "they want no thanks." They always do.

We know not why, when a young lady of fortune is going to be married,
her friends should all be expected to present her with bridal gifts. It
is a custom that sometimes bears heavily on those whose condition allows
them but little to spare. And from that little it may be very hard for
them to squeeze out enough to purchase some superfluous ornament, or
some bauble for a centre-table, when it is already glittering with the
gifts of the opulent;--gifts lavished on one who is really in no need of
such things; and whose marriage confers no benefit on any one but
herself. Why should she be rewarded for gratifying her own inclination
in marrying the man of her choice? Now that it is fashionable to display
all the wedding-gifts arranged in due form on tables, and labelled with
the names of the donors, the seeming necessity of giving something
expensive, or at least elegant, has become more onerous than ever. For
instance, poor Miss Cassin can barely afford a simple brooch that costs
about five dollars; but she strains the utmost capacity of her slender
purse to buy one at ten dollars, that it may not disgrace the brilliant
assemblage of jewellery that glitters on the bridal table of her wealthy
friend Miss Denham. And after all, she finds that her modest little
trinket looks really contemptible beside the diamond pin given by Mrs.
Farley the millionaire. After all, she sees no one notice it, and hears
no one say that it is even neat and pretty. To be sure, the bride, when
it was sent with a note on the preceding day, did vouchsafe a polite
answer. But then, if poor Miss C. does not make a wedding present to
rich Miss D., it might be supposed that Miss C. cannot afford it.
Neither she can. And her making the effort elicits perhaps some
satirical remarks, that would be very mortifying to Miss Cassin if she
heard them.

We repeat, that we cannot exactly perceive why, when the union of a
couple of lovers, in many cases, adds to the happiness, honour, and
glory of the married pair alone, their friends should think it a duty to
levy on themselves these contributions; so often inconvenient to the
givers, and not much cared for by the receivers.

When the young couple are not abounding in what are called "the goods of
this world," the case is altered; and it may then be an act of real
kindness for the opulent friends of the bride to present her with any
handsome article of dress, or of furniture, that they think will be
acceptable. What we contend is, that on a marriage in a wealthy family,
the making of presents should be confined to the immediate relatives of
the lady, and only to such of _them_ as can well afford it.

Much of the money wasted in making ostentatious gifts to brides whose
fathers have already given them a splendid outfit, might be far better
employed, in assisting to purchase the _trousseaus_ and the furniture of
deserving young women in humble life, on their marriage with respectable
tradesmen or mechanics. How many ladies of fortune have it in their
power to do this--yet how seldom it is done!

At christenings, it is fortunately the sponsors only that are expected
to make gifts to the infant. Therefore, invite no persons as sponsors,
who cannot well afford this expense; unless you are sufficiently
intimate to request them, privately, not to comply with the custom;
being unwilling that they should cause themselves inconvenience by doing
so.

The presentation of Christmas and New-Year's gifts is often a severe tax
on persons with whom money is not plenty. It would be well if it were
the universal custom to expect and receive no presents from any but the
rich.

In making gifts to children, choose for them only such things as will
afford them somewhat of lasting amusement. For boys, kites, tops, balls,
marbles, wheelbarrows, carts, gardening utensils, and carpenter's tools,
&c. Showy toys, that are merely to look at, and from which they can
derive no enjoyment but in breaking them to pieces, are not worth
buying. Little girls delight in little tea-sets, and dinner-sets, in
which they can "make feasts," miniature kitchen-utensils, to play at
cooking, washing, &c.; and dolls so dressed that all the clothes can be
taken off and put on at pleasure. They soon grow tired of a doll whose
glittering habiliments are sewed fast upon her. A wax doll in elegant
attire is too precarious and expensive a plaything to make them happy;
as they are always afraid of injuring her. We knew a little girl for
whom a magnificent wax doll, splendidly dressed, was brought from
France; and for an hour she was highly delighted. But next morning she
was found still more happy in carrying about her favourite baby, a
sofa-pillow, with an old shawl pinned round it for a frock; feeling
perfect freedom to toss it about as she pleased. Children like their
doll-babies to be very substantial, and rather heavy than light. A
large, well-made _rag_-doll is for a small child far better than any
other--occasionally putting a clean new face upon it.

We have seen country children perfectly satisfied with a doll that was
nothing but a hard ear of Indian corn, arrayed in a coarse towel pinned
round it. A little farm-house boy, of three years old, made a pet of a
large squash, which he dressed in a pocket-handkerchief, and called
Phebe Ann. We heard him say, as he passed his hand over its lumpy neck,
"Poor Phebe Ann! what hives she has!"

To an intelligent child, no gifts are so valuable as entertaining
books--provided they really _are_ entertaining. Children are generally
wise enough to prefer an amusing book in a plain cover, to a dull one
shining with gold. When children are able to read fluently, they lose
much of their desire for mere picture-books. If the cuts are badly
executed, and give ugly, disagreeable ideas of the characters in the
stories, they only trouble and annoy the little readers, instead of
pleasing them. Some of the most popular juvenile books have no pictures
inside, and no gilding outside. Bad engravings, (beside uselessly
enhancing the price,) spoil the taste of the children. We highly
recommend to the publishers of juvenile books to omit the cuts entirely,
if they cannot afford very good ones. Many children have better judgment
in these things than their parents suppose; and some of them more than
the parents themselves.

Children have less enjoyment than is supposed in being taken to shops to
choose gifts for themselves, or even in laying out their own money. It
is always a long time before they can decide on what to buy, and as soon
as they have fixed upon one thing, they immediately see something they
like better. And often, after getting home, they are dissatisfied with
their choice, and sorry they bought it. Also, they frequently wear out
the patience of the shopkeepers; being desirous of seeing every thing,
and pondering so long before they can determine on buying any thing.

It is every way better to go to the shops without them, buy what you
think proper, and then give them an agreeable surprise by the
presentation.

Young ladies should be careful how they accept presents from gentlemen.
No truly modest and dignified woman will incur such obligations. And no
gentleman who really respects her will offer her any thing more than a
bouquet, a book, one or two autographs of distinguished persons, or a
few relics or mementos of memorable places--things that derive their
chief value from associations. But to present a young lady with articles
of jewellery, or of dress, or with a costly ornament for the
centre-table, (unless she is his affianced wife,) ought to be regarded
as an offence, rather than a compliment, excusable only in a man sadly
ignorant of the refinements of society. And if he is so, she should set
him right, and civilly, but firmly, refuse to be his debtor.

Yet, we are sorry to say, that there are ladies so rapacious, and so
mean, that they are not ashamed to give broad hints to gentlemen,
(particularly those gentlemen who are either very young or very old,)
regarding certain beautiful card-cases, bracelets, essence-bottles, &c.
which they have seen and admired,--even going so far as to fall in love
with elegant shawls, scarfs, splendid fans, and embroidered
handkerchiefs. And their admiration is so violent, and so reiterated,
that the gentleman knows not how to resist; he therefore puts them in
possession of a gift far too costly for any woman of delicacy to accept.
In such cases, the father or mother of the young lady should oblige her
to return the present. This has been done.

There are ladies who keep themselves supplied with certain articles of
finery, (for instance, white kid gloves,) by laying ridiculous wagers
with gentlemen, knowing that, whether winning or losing, the gentleman,
out of gallantry, always pays. No lady should ever lay wagers, even with
one of her own sex. It is foolish and unfeminine--and no man likes her
any the better for indulging in the practice.

Some young ladies, who profess a sort of daughterly regard for certain
wealthy old gentlemen, are so kind as to knit purses or work slippers
for them, or some other nick-nacks, (provided always that the "dear old
man" has a character for generosity,) for they know that he will reward
them by a handsome present of some bijou of real value. And yet they may
be assured that the kind old gentleman (whom "they mind no more than if
he was their pa") sees through the whole plan, knows why the purse was
knit, or the slippers worked, and esteems the kind young lady
accordingly.

Another, and highly reprehensible way of extorting a gift, is to have
what is called a philopena with a gentleman. This very silly joke is
when a young lady, in cracking almonds, chances to find two kernels in
one shell; she shares them with a beau; which ever first calls out
"_philopena_," on their next meeting, is entitled to receive a present
from the other; and she is to remind him of it till he remembers to
comply. So much nonsense is often talked on the occasion, that it seems
to expand into something of importance; and the gentleman thinks he can
do no less, than purchase for the lady something very elegant, or
valuable; particularly if he has heard her tell of the munificence of
other beaux in their philopenas.

There is great want of delicacy and self-respect in philopenaism, and no
lady who has a proper sense of her dignity _as a lady_ will engage in
any thing of the sort.

In presenting a dress to a friend whose circumstances are not so
affluent as your own, and who you know will gladly receive it, select
one of excellent quality, and of a colour that you think she will like.
She will feel mortified, if you give her one that is low-priced, flimsy,
and of an unbecoming tint. Get an ample quantity, so as to allow a piece
to be cut off and laid by for a new body and sleeves, when necessary.
And to make the gift complete, buy linen for the body-lining; stiff,
glazed muslin for the facings; buttons, sewing-silk, and whatever else
may be wanted. This will save her the cost of these things.

When you give a dress to a poor woman, it is far better to buy for her a
substantial new one, than to bestow on her an old thin gown of your own.
The poor have little leisure to sew for themselves; and second-hand fine
clothes last them but a very short time before they are fit only for the
rag-bag.

If you are going to have a party, and among your very _intimate_ friends
is one whose circumstances will not permit her to incur the expense of
buying a handsome new dress for the occasion, and if she has no choice
but to stay away, or to appear in a costume very inferior to that of the
other ladies, you may (if you can well afford it) obviate this
difficulty by presenting her with a proper dress-pattern, and other
accessories. This may be managed anonymously, but it will be better to
do it with her knowledge. It will be a very gratifying mark of your
friendship; and she ought to consider it as such, and not refuse it from
a feeling of false pride. Of course, it will be kept a secret from all
but yourselves. In the overflow of gratitude _she_ may speak of it to
others, but for _you_ to mention it would be ungenerous and indelicate
in the extreme. We are glad to say that ladies of fortune often make
gifts of party-dresses to their less-favoured friends.

In sending a present, always pay in advance the expense of transmitting
it, so that it may cost nothing at all to the receiver. You may send by
the Mail a package of any size, weighing not more than four pounds,
paying the postage yourself at the office from whence it goes. It will
then be delivered at the door of your friend, without further charge.


CONVERSATION.


Conversation is the verbal interchange of thoughts and feelings. To form
a _perfect_ conversationist, many qualifications are requisite. There
must be knowledge of the world, knowledge of books, and a facility of
imparting that knowledge; together with originality, memory, an
intuitive perception of what is best to say, and best to omit, good
taste, good temper, and good manners. An agreeable and instructive
talker has the faculty of going "from gay to grave, from lively to
serene," without any apparent effort; neither skimming so slightly over
a variety of topics as to leave no impression of any, or dwelling so
long upon one subject as to weary the attention of the hearers. Persons
labouring under a monomania, such as absorbs their whole mind into one
prevailing idea, are never pleasant or impressive talkers. They defeat
their own purpose by recurring to it perpetually, and rendering it a
perpetual fatigue. A good talker should cultivate a temperance in
talking; so as not to talk too much, to the exclusion of other good
talkers. Conversation is dialogue, not monologue. It was said of Madame
de Stael that she did not converse, but delivered orations.

To be a perfect conversationist, a good voice is indispensable--a voice
that is clear, distinct, and silver-toned. If you find that you have a
habit of speaking too low, "reform it altogether." It is a bad one; and
will render your talk unintelligible.

Few things are more delightful than for one intelligent and well-stored
mind to find itself in company with a kindred spirit--each understanding
the other, catching every idea, and comprehending every allusion. Such
persons will become as intimate in half an hour, as if they had been
personally acquainted for years.

On the other hand, the pleasure of society is much lessened by the habit
in which many persons indulge, of placing themselves always in the
opposition, controverting every opinion, and doubting every fact. They
talk to you as a lawyer examines a witness at the bar; trying to catch
you in some discrepancy that will invalidate your testimony; fixing
their scrutinizing eyes upon your face "as if they would look you
through," and scarcely permitting you to say, "It is a fine day,"
without making you prove your words. Such people are never popular.
Nobody likes perpetual contradiction, especially when the subject of
argument is of little or no consequence. In young people this dogmatic
practice is generally based upon vanity and impertinence. In the old it
is prompted by pride and selfishness. We doubt if in the present day the
talk and manners of Johnson would have been tolerated in really good
society.

Unless he first refers to it himself, never talk to a gentleman
concerning his profession; at least do not question him about it. For
instance, you must not expect a physician to tell you how his patients
are affected, or to confide to you any particulars of their maladies.
These are subjects that he will discuss only with their relatives, or
their nurses. It is also very improper to ask a lawyer about his
clients, or the cases in which he is employed. A clergyman does not like
always to be talking about the church. A merchant, when away from his
counting-house, has no wish to engage in business-talk with ladies; and
a mechanic is ever willing "to leave the shop behind him." Every
American is to be supposed capable of conversing on miscellaneous
subjects; and he considers it no compliment to be treated as if he knew
nothing but what the Scotch call his "bread-winner." Still, there are
some few individuals who like to talk of their bread-winner. If you
perceive this disposition, indulge them, and listen attentively. You
will learn something useful, and worth remembering.

Women who have begun the world in humble life, and have been
necessitated to give most of their attention to household affairs, are
generally very shy in talking of housewifery, after their husbands have
become rich, and are living in style, as it is called. Therefore, do not
annoy them by questions on domestic economy. But converse as if they had
been ladies always.

Lord Erskine, having lived a bachelor to an advanced age, finally
married his cook, by way of securing her services, as she had frequently
threatened to leave him. After she became Lady Erskine she lost all
knowledge of cookery, and it was a mortal affront to hint the
possibility of her knowing how any sort of eatable should be prepared
for the table.

Never remind any one of the time when their situation was less genteel,
or less affluent than at present, or tell them that you remember their
living in a small house, or in a remote street. If they have not moral
courage to talk of such things themselves, it is rude in you to make any
allusion to them.

On the other hand, if invited to a fashionable house, and to meet
fashionable company, it is not the time or place for you to set forth
the comparative obscurity of your own origin, by way of showing that you
are not proud. If _you_ are not proud, it is most likely that your
entertainers may be, and they will not be pleased at your
ultra-magnanimity in thus lowering yourself before their aristocratic
guests. These communications should be reserved for _tête-à-têtes_ with
old or familiar friends, who have no more pride than yourself.

When listening to a circumstance that is stated to have actually
occurred to the relater, even if it strikes you as being very
extraordinary, and not in conformity to your own experience, it is rude
to reply, "Such a thing never happened to _me_." It is rude because it
seems to imply a doubt of the narrator's veracity; and it is foolish,
because its not having happened to _you_ is no proof that it could not
have happened to any body else. Slowness in belief is sometimes an
evidence of ignorance, rather than of knowledge. People who have read
but little, travelled but little, and seen but little of the world out
of their own immediate circle, and whose intellect is too obtuse to
desire any new accession to their own small stock of ideas, are apt to
think that nothing can be true unless it has fallen under their own
limited experience. Also, they may be so circumstanced that nothing in
the least out of the common way is likely to disturb the still water of
their pond-like existence.

A certain English nobleman always listens incredulously when he hears
any person descanting on the inconveniences of travelling on the
continent, and relating instances of bad accommodations and bad fare;
uncomfortable vehicles, and uncomfortable inns; the short beds and
narrow sheets of Germany; the slow and lumbering diligence-riding of
France; the garlicky stews of Spain with a feline foundation; the little
vine-twig fires in the chilly winters of Northern Italy; and various
other ills, which the flesh of travellers is heir to;--the duke always
saying, "Now really _I_ never experienced any of these discomforts, much
as I have traversed the continent. None of these inconveniences ever
come in my way." And how should they, when, being a man of enormous
wealth, he always travels with a cavalcade of carriages; a retinue of
servants; a wagon-load of bedding and other furniture; a cook, with
cooking-utensils, and lots of luxurious eatables to be cooked at
stopping-places--his body-coach (as it is called) being a horse-drawn
palace. What inconveniences can possibly happen to _him_?

When you hear a gentleman speak in praise of a lady whom you do not
think deserving of his commendations, you will gain nothing by
attempting to undeceive him; particularly if she is handsome. Your
dissenting from his opinion he will, in all probability, impute to envy,
or ill-nature; and therefore the only impression you can make will be
against yourself.

Even if you have reason to dislike the lady, recollect that few are
without some good points both of person and character. And it will be
much better for you to pass over her faults in silence, and agree with
him in commending what is really commendable about her. What he would,
perhaps, believe implicitly if told to him by a man, he would attribute
entirely to jealousy, or to a love of detraction if related by a woman.
Above all, if a gentleman descants on the beauty of a lady, and in your
own mind you do not coincide with his opinion, refrain, on your part,
from criticizing invidiously her face and figure, and do not say that
"though her complexion may be fine, her features are not regular;" that
"her nose is too small," or "her eyes too large," or "her mouth too
wide." Still less disclose to him the secret of her wearing false hair,
artificial teeth, or tinging her cheeks with rouge. If she is a bold,
forward woman, he will find that out as soon as yourself, and sooner
too,--and you may be sure that though he may amuse himself by talking
and flirting with her, he in reality regards her as she deserves.

If a foreigner chances, in your presence, to make an unfavourable remark
upon some custom or habit peculiar to your country, do not immediately
take fire and resent it; for, perhaps, upon reflection, you may find
that he is right, or nearly so. All countries have their national
character, and no character is perfect, whether that of a nation or an
individual. If you know that the stranger has imbibed an erroneous
impression, you may calmly, and in a few words, endeavour to convince
him of it. But if he shows an unwillingness to be convinced, and tells
you that what he has said he heard from good authority; or that, before
he came to America, "his mind was made up," it will be worse than
useless for you to continue the argument. Therefore change the subject,
or turn and address your conversation to some one else.

Lady Morgan's Duchess of Belmont very properly checks O'Donnell for his
ultra-nationality, and advises him not to be always running a tilt with
every Englishman he talks to, continually seeming as if ready with the
war-cry of "St. Patrick for Ireland, against St. George for England."

Dr. Johnson was speaking of Scotland with his usual severity, when a
Caledonian who was present, started up, and called out, "Sir, _I_ was
born in Scotland." "Very well, sir," said the cynic calmly, "I do not
see why so small a circumstance should make any change in the national
character."

English strangers complain (and with reason) of the American practice of
imposing on their credulity, by giving them false and exaggerated
accounts of certain things peculiar to this country, and telling them,
as truths, stories that are absolute impossibilities; the amusement
being to see how the John Bulls swallow these absurdities. Even General
Washington diverted himself by mystifying Weld the English traveller,
who complained to him at Mount Vernon of musquitoes so large and fierce
that they bit through his cloth coat. "Those are nothing," said
Washington, "to musquitoes I have met with, that bite through a thick
leather boot." Weld expressed his astonishment, (as well he might;) and,
when he "put out a book," inserted the story of the boot-piercing
insects, which he said _must_ be true, as he had it from no less a
person than General Washington.

It is a work of supererogation to furnish falsehoods for British
travellers. They can manufacture them fast enough. Also, it is
ungenerous thus to sport with their ignorance, and betray them into
ridiculous caricatures, which they present to the English world in good
faith. We hope these tricks are not played upon any of the best class of
European travel-writers.

When in Europe, (in England particularly,) be not over sensitive as to
remarks that may be made on your own country; and do not expect every
one around you to keep perpetually in mind that you are an American; nor
require that they should guard every word, and keep a constant check on
their conversation, lest they should chance to offend your republican
feelings. The English, as they become better acquainted with America,
regard us with more favour, and are fast getting rid of their old
prejudices, and opening their eyes as to the advantages to be derived
from cultivating our friendship instead of provoking our enmity. They
have, at last, all learnt that our language is theirs, and they no
longer compliment newly-arrived Americans on speaking English "quite
well." It is not many years since two young ladies from one of our
Western States, being at a party at a very fashionable mansion in
London, were requested by the lady of the house to talk a little
American; several of her guests being desirous of hearing a specimen of
that language. One of the young ladies mischievously giving a hint to
the other, they commenced a conversation in what school-girls call
_gibberish_; and the listeners, when they had finished, gave various
opinions on the American tongue, some pronouncing it very soft, and
rather musical; others could not help saying candidly that they found it
rather harsh. But all agreed that it resembled no language they had
heard before.

There is no doubt that by the masses, better English is spoken in
America than in England.

However an Englishman or an Englishwoman may boast of their intimacy
with "the nobility and gentry," there is one infallible rule by which
the falsehood of these pretensions may be detected. And that is in the
misuse of the letter H, putting it where it should not be, and omitting
it where it should. This unaccountable practice prevails, more or less,
in all parts of England, but is unknown in Scotland and Ireland. It is
never found but among the middle and lower classes, and by polished and
well-educated people is as much laughed at in England as it is with us.
A relative of ours being in a stationer's shop in St. Paul's Church
Yard, (the street surrounding the cathedral,) heard the stationer call
his boy, and tell him to "go and take the babby out, and give him a
_hairing_--the babby having had no _hair_ for a week." We have heard an
Englishman talk of "taking an _ouse_ that should have an _ot_ water
pipe, and a _hoven_." The same man asked a young lady "if she had _eels_
on her boots." We heard an Englishwoman tell a servant to "bring the
_arth_ brush, and sweep up the _hashes_." Another assured us that "the
American ladies were quite _hignorant_ of _hetiquette_."

We have actually seen a ridiculous bill sent seriously by a Yorkshireman
who kept a livery-stable in Philadelphia. The items were, _verbatim_--

                                   D. C.
    anosafada                      2 50
    takinonimome                   0 37

No reader can possibly guess this--so we will explain that the first
line, in which all the words run into one, signifies "An orse af a
day,"--or "A horse half a day." The second line means "takin on im
ome,"--or "Taking of him home."

English travellers are justly severe on the tobacco-chewing and
spitting, that though exploded in the best society, is still too
prevalent among the million. All American ladies can speak feelingly on
this subject, for they suffer from it in various ways. First, the
sickening disgust without which they cannot witness the act of
expectoration performed before their faces. Next, the danger of
tobacco-saliva falling on their dresses in the street, or while
travelling in steamers and rail-cars. Then the necessity of walking
through the abomination when leaving those conveyances; treading in it
with their shoes; and wiping it up with the hems of their gowns. We know
an instance of the crown of a lady's white-silk bonnet being bespattered
with tobacco-juice, by a man spitting out of a window in one of the New
York hotels. A lady on the second seat of a box at the Chestnut-street
theatre, found, when she went home, the back of her pelisse entirely
spoilt, by some man behind not having succeeded in trying to spit past
her--or perhaps he did not try. Why should ladies endure all this, that
men may indulge in a vulgar and deleterious practice, pernicious to
their own health, and which they cannot acquire without going through a
seasoning of disgust and nausea?

It is very unmannerly when a person begins to relate a circumstance or
an anecdote, to stop them short by saying, "I have heard it before."
Still worse, to say you do not wish to hear it at all. There are people
who set themselves against listening to any thing that can possibly
excite melancholy or painful feelings; and profess to hear nothing that
may give them a sad or unpleasant sensation. Those who have so much
tenderness for themselves, have usually but little tenderness for
others. It is impossible to go through the world with perpetual sunshine
over head, and unfading flowers under foot. Clouds will gather in the
brightest sky, and weeds choke up the fairest primroses and violets.
And we should all endeavour to prepare ourselves for these changes, by
listening with sympathy to the manner in which they have affected
others.

No person of good feelings, good manners, or true refinement, will
entertain their friends with minute descriptions of sickening horrors,
such as barbarous executions, revolting punishments, or inhuman
cruelties perpetrated on animals. We have never heard an officer dilate
on the dreadful spectacle of a battlefield; a scene of which no
description can ever present an adequate idea; and which no painter has
ever exhibited in all its shocking and disgusting details. Physicians do
not talk of the dissecting-room.

Unless you are speaking to a physician, and are interested in a patient
he is attending, refrain in conversation from entering into the
particulars of revolting diseases, such as scrofula, ulcers, cutaneous
afflictions, &c. and discuss no terrible operations--especially at
table. There are women who seem to delight in dwelling on such
disagreeable topics.

If you are attending the sick-bed of a friend, and are called down to a
visiter, speak of her illness with delicacy, and do not disclose all the
unpleasant circumstances connected with it; things which it would grieve
her to know, may, if once told, be circulated among married women, and
by them repeated to their husbands. In truth, upon most occasions, a
married woman is not a safe confidant. She will assuredly tell every
thing to her husband; and in all probability to his mother and sisters
also--that is, every thing concerning her friends--always, perhaps,
under a strict injunction of secrecy. But a secret entrusted to more
than two or three persons, is soon diffused throughout the whole
community.

A man of some humour was to read aloud a deed. He commenced with the
words, "Know one woman by these presents." He was interrupted, and asked
why he changed the words, which were in the usual form, "Know all men by
these presents." "Oh!" said he, "'tis very certain that all men will
soon know it, if one woman does."

Generally speaking, it is injudicious for ladies to attempt arguing with
gentlemen on political or financial topics. All the information that a
woman can possibly acquire or remember on these subjects is so small, in
comparison with the knowledge of men, that the discussion will not
elevate them in the opinion of masculine minds. Still, it is well for a
woman to desire enlightenment, that she may comprehend something of
these discussions, when she hears them from the other sex; therefore let
her listen as understandingly as she can, but refrain from controversy
and argument on such topics as the grasp of a female mind is seldom
capable of seizing or retaining. Men are very intolerant toward women
who are prone to contradiction and contention, when the talk is of
things considered out of their sphere; but very indulgent toward a
modest and attentive listener, who only asks questions for the sake of
information. Men like to dispense knowledge; but few of them believe
that in departments exclusively their own, they can profit much by the
suggestions of women. It is true there are and have been women who have
distinguished themselves greatly in the higher branches of science and
literature, and on whom the light of genius has clearly descended. But
can the annals of woman produce a female Shakspeare, a female Milton, a
Goldsmith, a Campbell, or a Scott? What woman has painted like Raphael
or Titian, or like the best artists of our own times? Mrs. Darner and
Mrs. Siddons had a talent for sculpture; so had Marie of Orleans, the
accomplished daughter of Louis Philippe. Yet what are the productions of
these talented ladies compared to those of Thorwaldsen, Canova,
Chantrey, and the master chisels of the great American statuaries. Women
have been excellent musicians, and have made fortunes by their voices.
But is there among them a Mozart, a Bellini, a Michael Kelly, an Auber,
a Boieldieu? Has a woman made an improvement on steam-engines, or on any
thing connected with the mechanic arts? And yet these things have been
done by men of no early education--by self-taught men. A good tailor
fits, cuts out, and sews better than the most celebrated female
dress-maker. A good man-cook far excels a good woman-cook. Whatever may
be their merits as assistants, women are rarely found who are very
successful at the head of any establishment that requires energy and
originality of mind. Men make fortunes, women make livings. And none
make poorer livings than those who waste their time, and bore their
friends, by writing and lecturing upon the equality of the sexes, and
what they call "Women's Rights." How is it that most of these ladies
live separately from their husbands; either despising them, or being
despised by them?

Truth is, the female sex is really as inferior to the male in vigour of
mind as in strength of body; and all arguments to the contrary are
founded on a few anomalies, or based on theories that can never be
reduced to practice. Because there was a Joan of Arc, and an Augustina
of Saragossa, should females expose themselves to all the dangers and
terrors of "the battle-field's dreadful array." The women of the
American Revolution effected much good to their country's cause, without
encroaching upon the province of its brave defenders. They were faithful
and patriotic; but they left the conduct of that tremendous struggle to
abler heads, stronger arms, and sterner hearts.

We envy not the female who can look unmoved upon physical horrors--even
the sickening horrors of the dissecting-room.

Yet women are endowed with power to meet misfortune with fortitude; to
endure pain with patience; to resign themselves calmly, piously, and
hopefully to the last awful change that awaits every created being; to
hazard their own lives for those that they love; to toil cheerfully and
industriously for the support of their orphan children, or their aged
parents; to watch with untiring tenderness the sick-bed of a friend, or
even of a stranger; to limit their own expenses and their own pleasures,
that they may have something to bestow on deserving objects of charity;
to smooth the ruggedness of man; to soften his asperities of temper; to
refine his manners; to make his home a happy one; and to improve the
minds and hearts of their children. All this women can--and do. And this
is their true mission.

In talking with a stranger, if the conversation should turn toward
sectarian religion, enquire to what church he belongs; and then mention
your own church. This, among people of good sense and good manners, and
we may add of true piety, will preclude all danger of remarks being made
on either side which may be painful to either party. Happily we live in
a land of universal toleration, where all religions are equal in the
sight of the law and the government; and where no text is more powerful
and more universally received than the wise and incontrovertible
words--"By their fruits ye shall know them." He that acts well is a good
man, and a religious man, at whatever altar he may worship. He that acts
ill is a bad man, and has no true sense of religion; no matter how
punctual his attendance at church, if of that church he is an unworthy
member. Ostentatious sanctimony may deceive man, but it cannot deceive
God.

On this earth there are many roads to heaven; and each traveller
supposes his own to be the best. But they must all unite in one road at
the last. It is only Omniscience that can decide. And it will then be
found that no sect is excluded because of its faith; or if its members
have acted honestly and conscientiously according to the lights they
had, and molesting no one for believing in the tenets of a different
church. The religion of Jesus, as our Saviour left it to us, was one of
peace and good-will to men, and of unlimited faith in the wisdom and
goodness, and power and majesty of God. It is not for a frail human
being to place limits to his mercy, and say what church is the only true
one--and the only one that leads to salvation. Let all men keep in mind
this self-evident truth--"He can't be wrong whose life is in the right;"
and try to act up to the Divine command of "doing unto all men as you
would they should do unto you."

In America, no religious person of good sense or good manners ever
attempts, in company, to controvert, uncalled for, the sectarian
opinions of another. No clergyman that is a gentleman, (and they all are
so, or ought to be,) ever will make the drawing-room an arena for
religious disputation, or will offer a single deprecatory remark, on
finding the person with whom he is conversing to be a member of a church
essentially differing from his own. And if clergymen have that
forbearance, it is doubly presumptuous for a woman, (perhaps a silly
young girl,) to take such a liberty. "Fools rush in, where angels fear
to tread."

Nothing is more apt to defeat even a good purpose than the mistaken and
ill-judged zeal of those that are not competent to understand it in all
its bearings.

Truly does the Scripture tell us--"There is a time for all things." We
know an instance of a young lady at a ball attempting violently to make
a proselyte of a gentleman of twice her age, a man of strong sense and
high moral character, whose church (of which he was a sincere member)
differed materially from her own. After listening awhile, he told her
that a ball-room was no place for such discussions, and made his bow and
left her. At another party we saw a young girl going round among the
matrons, and trying to bring them all to a confession of faith.

Religion is too sacred a subject for discussion at balls and parties.

If you find that an intimate friend has a leaning toward the church in
which you worship, first ascertain truly if her parents have no
objection, and then, but not else, you may be justified in inducing her
to adopt your opinions. Still, in most cases, it is best not to
interfere.

In giving your opinion of a new book, a picture, or a piece of music,
when conversing with a distinguished author, an artist or a musician,
say modestly, that "so it appears to _you_"--that "it has given _you_
pleasure," or the contrary. But do not positively and dogmatically
assert that it _is_ good, or that it _is_ bad. The person with whom you
are talking is, in all probability, a far more competent judge than
yourself; therefore, listen attentively, and he may correct your
opinion, and set you right. If he fail to convince you, remain silent,
or change the subject. Vulgar ladies have often a way of saying, when
disputing on the merits of a thing they are incapable of understanding,
"Any how, _I_ like it," or, "It is quite good enough for _me_."--Which
is no proof of its being good enough for any body else.

In being asked your candid opinion of a person, be very cautious to whom
you confide that opinion; for if repeated as yours, it may lead to
unpleasant consequences. It is only to an intimate and long-tried friend
that you may safely entrust certain things, which if known, might
produce mischief. Even very intimate friends are not always to be
trusted, and when they have actually told something that they heard
under the injunction of secrecy, they will consider it a sufficient
atonement to say, "Indeed I did not mean to tell it, but somehow it
slipped out;" or, "I really intended to guard the secret faithfully, but
I was so questioned and cross-examined, and bewildered, that I knew not
how to answer without disclosing enough to make them guess the whole. I
am very sorry, and will try to be more cautious in future. But these
slips of the tongue will happen."

The lady whose confidence has been thus betrayed, should be "more
cautious in future," and put no farther trust in she of the slippery
tongue--giving her up, entirely, as unworthy of farther friendship.

No circumstances will induce an honourable and right-minded woman to
reveal a secret after promising secrecy. But she should refuse being
made the depository of any extraordinary fact which it may be wrong to
conceal, and wrong to disclose.

We can scarcely find words sufficiently strong to contemn the heinous
practice, so prevalent with low-minded people, of repeating to their
friends whatever they hear to their disadvantage. By low-minded people,
we do not exclusively mean persons of low station. The low-minded are
not always "born in a garret, in a kitchen bred." Unhappily, there are
(so-called) ladies--ladies of fortune and fashion--who will descend to
meannesses of which the higher ranks ought to be considered incapable,
and who, without compunction, will wantonly lacerate the feelings and
mortify the self-love of those whom they call their friends, telling
them what has been said about them by other friends.

It is sometimes said of a notorious tatler and mischief-maker, that "she
has, notwithstanding, a good heart." How is this possible, when it is
her pastime to scatter dissension, ill-feeling, and unhappiness among
all whom she calls her friends? She may, perhaps, give alms to beggars,
or belong to sewing circles, or to Bible societies, or be officious in
visiting the sick. All this is meritorious, and it is well if there is
some good in her. But if she violates the charities of social life, and
takes a malignant pleasure in giving pain, and causing trouble--depend
on it, her show of benevolence is mere ostentation, and her acts of
kindness spring not from the heart. She will convert the sewing circle
into a scandal circle. If she is assiduous in visiting her sick friends,
she will turn to the worst account, particulars she may thus acquire of
the sanctities of private life and the humiliating mysteries of the
sick-chamber.

If indeed it can be possible that tatling and mischief-making may be
only (as is sometimes alleged) a bad habit, proceeding from an inability
to govern the tongue--shame on those who have allowed themselves to
acquire such a habit, and who make no effort to subdue it, or who have
encouraged it in their children, and perhaps set them the example.

If you are so unfortunate as to know one of these pests of society, get
rid of her acquaintance as soon as you can. If allowed to go on, she
will infallibly bring you into some difficulty, if not into disgrace. If
she begins by telling you--"I had a hard battle to fight in your behalf
last evening at Mrs. Morley's. Miss Jewson, whom you believe to be one
of your best friends, said some very severe things about you, which, to
my surprise, were echoed by Miss Warden, who said she knew them to be
true. But I contradicted them warmly. Still they would not be convinced,
and said I must be blind and deaf not to know better. How very hard it
is to distinguish those who love from those who hate us!"

Instead of encouraging the mischief-maker to relate the particulars, and
explain exactly what these severe things really were, the true and
dignified course should be to say as calmly as you can--"I consider no
person my friend, who comes to tell such things as must give me pain and
mortification, and lessen my regard for those I have hitherto esteemed,
and in whose society I have found pleasure. I have always liked Miss
Jewson and Miss Warden, and am sorry to hear that they do not like _me_.
Still, as I am not certain of the exact truth, (being in no place where
I could myself overhear the discussion,) it will make no difference in
my behaviour to those young ladies. And now then we will change the
subject, never to resume it. My true friends do not bring me such
tales."

By-the-bye, tatlers are always listeners, and are frequently the
atrocious writers of anonymous letters, for which they should be
expelled from society.

Let it be remembered that all who are capable of detailing unpleasant
truths, (such as can answer no purpose but to produce bad feeling, and
undying enmity,) are likewise capable of exaggerating and
misrepresenting facts, that do not seem quite strong enough to excite
much indignation. Tale-bearing always leads to lying. She who begins
with the first of these vices, soon arrives at the second.

Some prelude these atrocious communications with--"I think it my duty to
tell how Miss Jackson and Mrs. Wilson talk about you, for it is right
that you should know your friends from your enemies." You listen,
believe, and from that time become the enemy of Miss Jackson and Mrs.
Wilson--having too much pride to investigate the truth, and learn what
they really said.

Others will commence with--"I'm a plain-spoken woman, and consider it
right, for your own sake, to inform you that since your return from
Europe, you talk quite too much of your travels."

You endeavour to defend yourself from this accusation, by replying that
"having seen much when abroad, it is perfectly natural that you should
allude to what you have seen."

"Oh! but there should be moderation in all things. To be candid--your
friend Mrs. Willet says she is tired of hearing of France and Italy."

"Why then does she always try to get a seat next to me, and ask me to
tell her something more of those countries?"

"Well, I don't know. People are so deceitful! There is Mr. Liddard, who
says you bore him to death with talking about England."

"And yet whenever I do talk about England, I always find him at the back
of my chair. And when I pause, he draws me on to say more."

"Men are such flatterers! Well, I always tell the plain truth. So it is
best you should know Colonel Greenfield declares that since your return
from Europe you are absolutely intolerable. Excuse my telling you these
things. It is only to show that every body else thinks just as I do.
Mrs. Gray says it is a pity you ever crossed the Atlantic."

Do not excuse her--but drop her acquaintance as soon as you can, without
coming to a quarrel, in which case you will most probably get the worst.
A plain-spoken woman is always to be dreaded. Her cold-blooded
affectation of frankness is only a pretext to introduce something that
will wound your feelings; and then she will tell you "that Mrs. A. B. C.
and D., and Mr. E. and Mr. F. also, have said a hundred times that you
are a woman of violent temper, and cannot listen to advice without
flying into a passion."

And she will quietly take her leave, informing you that she is your best
friend, and that all she has said was entirely for your own good, and
that she shall continue to admonish you whenever she sees occasion.

A plain-spoken woman will tell you that you were thought to look very
ill at Mrs. Thomson's party, your dress being rather in bad taste; that
you ought to give up singing in company, your best friends saying that
your style is now a little old-fashioned; that you should not attempt
talking French to French ladies, as Mr. Leroux and Mr. Dufond say that
your French is not quite Parisian, &c. &c. She will say these things
upon no authority but her own.

When any one prefaces an enquiry by the vulgarism, "If it is a fair
question?" you may be very certain that the question is a most _un_fair
one--that is, a question which it is impertinent to ask, and of no
consequence whatever to the asker.

If a person begins by telling you, "Do not be offended at what I am
going to say," prepare yourself for something that she knows will
certainly offend you. But as she has given you notice, try to listen,
and answer with calmness.

It is a delicate and thankless business to tell a friend of her faults,
unless you are certain that, in return, you can bear without anger to
hear her point out your own. She will undoubtedly recriminate.

It is not true that an irritable temper cannot be controlled. It can,
and is, whenever the worldly interest of the _enragée_ depends on its
suppression.

Frederick the Great severely reprimanded a Prussian officer for striking
a soldier at a review. "I could not refrain," said the officer. "I have
a high temper, your majesty, and I cannot avoid showing it, when I see a
man looking sternly at me." "Yes, you can," replied the king. "I am
looking sternly at you, and I am giving you ten times as much cause of
offence as that poor soldier--yet you do not strike _me_."

A naturally irritable disposition can always be tamed down, by a strong
and persevering effort to subdue it, and by determining always to check
it on its first approaches to passion. The indulgence of temper renders
a man (and still more a woman) the dread and shame of the whole house.
It wears out the affection of husbands, wives, and children--of brothers
and sisters; destroys friendship; disturbs the enjoyment of social
intercourse; causes incessant changing of servants; and is a constant
source of misery to that most unhappy of all classes, poor relations.

That a violent temper is generally accompanied by a good heart, is a
popular fallacy. On the contrary, the indulgence of it hardens the
heart. And even if its ebullitions are always succeeded by "compunctious
visitings," and followed by apologies and expressions of regret, still
it leaves wounds that time cannot always efface, and which we may
forgive, but cannot forget.

Ill-tempered women are very apt to call themselves nervous, and to
attribute their violent fits of passion to a weakness of the nerves.
This is not true. A real nervous affection shows itself "more in sorrow
than in anger," producing tears, tremor, and head-ache, fears without
adequate cause, and general depression of spirits--the feelings becoming
tender to a fault.

When a woman abandons herself to terrible fits of anger with little or
no cause, and makes herself a frightful spectacle, by turning white
with rage, rolling up her eyes, drawing in her lips, gritting her teeth,
clenching her hands, and stamping her feet, depend on it, she is not of
a nervous, but of a furious temperament. A looking-glass held before
her, to let her see what a shocking object she has made herself, would,
we think, have an excellent effect. We have seen but a few females in
this revolting state, and only three of them were ladies--but we have
heard of many.

When the paroxysm is over, all the atonement she can make is to
apologize humbly, and to pray contritely. If she has really any goodness
of heart, and any true sense of religion, she will do this promptly, and
prove her sincerity by being very kind to those whom she has outraged
and insulted--and whose best course during these fits of fury is to make
no answer, or to leave the room.

As out of nothing, nothing can come, to be a good conversationist, you
must have a well-stored mind, originality of ideas, and a retentive
memory. Without making a lumber-room of your head, and stuffing it with
all manner of useless and unnecessary things not worth retaining, you
should select only such as are useful or ornamental, interesting or
amusing. Your talk must flow as if spontaneously; one subject suggesting
another, none being dwelt upon too long. Anecdotes may be introduced
with much effect. They should be short, and related in such words as
will give them the most point. We have heard the same anecdote told by
two persons. With one it became prosy and tiresome, and the point was
not perceptible from its being smothered in ill-chosen words. With the
other narrator, the anecdote was "all light and spirit; soon told, and
not soon forgotten." Brevity is the soul of wit, and wit is the soul of
anecdote. And where wit is wanting, humour is an excellent substitute.
Every body likes to laugh, or ought to. Yet there is a time for all
things; and after listening to a serious or interesting incident well
related, it is exceedingly annoying to hear some silly and heartless
girl follow it with a ridiculous remark, intended to be funny--such as
"Quite solemncolly!"--or, "We are all getting into the doldrums."

You may chance to find yourself in a company where no one is capable of
appreciating the best sort of conversation, and where to be understood,
or indeed to keep them awake, you must talk down to the capacities of
your hearers. You must manage this adroitly, or they may find you out,
and be offended. So, after all, it is, perhaps, safest to go on and
scatter pearls where wax beads would be equally valued. Only in such
society, do not introduce quotations from the poets, especially from
Shakspeare, or your hearers may wonder what queer words you are saying.
Another time, and with congenial companions, you can indulge in "the
feast of reason, and the flow of soul."

If placed beside a lady so taciturn that no effort on your part can draw
her out, or elicit more than a monosyllable, and that only at long
intervals, you may safely conclude that there is nothing in her, and
leave her to her own dullness, or to be enlivened by the approach of one
of the other sex. That will make her talk.

Few persons are good talkers who are not extensive and miscellaneous
readers. You cannot attentively read the best authors without obtaining
a great command of words, so that you can always, with ease and fluency,
clothe your ideas in appropriate language.

Knowledge is of course the basis of conversation--the root whose
deepened strength and vigour gives life to the tree, multiplicity to its
branches, and beauty to its foliage.

Much that is bad and foolish in women would have no existence if their
minds were less barren. In a waste field, worthless and bitter weeds
will spring up which it is hard to eradicate; while a soil that is
judiciously cultivated produces abundant grain, luxuriant grass, and
beautiful flowers.

There are ladies so exceedingly satisfied with themselves, and so
desirous of being thought the special favourites of Providence, that
they are always desiring to hold out an idea "that pain and sorrow can
come not near them," and that they enjoy a happy exemption from "all the
ills that flesh is heir to." They complain of nothing, for they profess
to have nothing to complain of. They feel not the cold of winter, nor
the heat of summer. The temperature is always exactly what _they_ like.
To them the street is never muddy with rain, nor slippery with ice.
Unwholesome food agrees perfectly with _them_. They sleep soundly in bad
beds, or rather no beds are bad. Travelling never fatigues them. Nobody
imposes on them, nobody offends them. Other people may be ill--they are
always in good health and spirits. To them all books are
delightful--all pictures beautiful--all music charming. Other people may
have trouble with their children--_they_ have none. Other people may
have bad servants--_theirs_ are always excellent.

Now if all this were true, the lot of such persons would indeed be
enviable, and we should endeavour to learn by what process such complete
felicity has been attained--and why they see every thing through such a
roseate medium. But it is not true. This is all overweening vanity, and
a desire "to set themselves up above the rest of the world." We have
always noticed that these over-fortunate, over-happy women have, in
reality, a discontented, care-worn look, resulting from the incessant
painful effort to seem what they are not. And if any body will take the
trouble, it is very easy to catch them in discrepancies and
contradictions. But it is not polite to do so. Therefore let them pass.

As mothers are always on the _qui vive_, (and very naturally,) be
careful what you say of their children. Unless he is a decidedly
handsome man, you may give offence by remarking, "The boy is the very
image of his father." If the mother is a vain woman, she would much
rather hear that all the children are the very image of herself. Refrain
from praising too much the children of another family, particularly if
the two sets of children are cousins. It is often dangerous to tell a
mother that "little Willy is growing quite handsome." She will probably
answer, "I had hoped my child was handsome always." With some mothers it
is especially imprudent to remark that "little Mary looks like her
aunt, or her grandmother." Again, if you prudently say nothing about the
looks of the little dears, you may be suspected and perhaps accused of
taking no interest in children. Young ladies, when in presence of
gentlemen, are too apt to go on the other extreme, and over-act their
parts, in the excessive fondling and kissing and hugging of children not
in the least engaging, or even good-looking. We cannot believe that any
female, not the mother, can really fall into raptures with a cross, ugly
child. But how pleasant it is to play with and amuse, an intelligent,
affectionate, and good-tempered little thing, to hear its innocent
sayings, and to see the first buddings of its infant mind.

When you are visiting another city, and receiving civilities from some
of its inhabitants, it is an ill requital for their attentions to
disparage their place, and glorify your own. In every town there is
something to praise; and in large cities there is a great deal to amuse,
to interest, and to give pleasure. Yet there are travellers who (like
Smelfungus) are never satisfied with the place they are in--who exclaim
all the time against the east winds of Boston, the sea-air of New York,
the summer heats of Philadelphia, the hilly streets of Baltimore, and
the dusty avenues of Washington. We have heard people from New Orleans
call Philadelphia the hottest city in the Union, and people from Quebec
call it the coldest. If there are two successive days of rain, then poor
Philadelphia is the rainiest of all places. If it snows twice in two
weeks, then it is the snowiest. If a fire breaks out, it is the city of
fires. If there is an Irish fight in Moyamensing, it is the city of
perpetual riots. By-the-bye, after that summer when we really had
several successive riots up-town, and down-town, we saw an English
caricature of the City of Brotherly Love, where the spirit of William
Penn, in hat and wig, was looking down sadly from the clouds at the
rioters, who were all represented as Quakers, in strait, plain clothes,
and broad brims, knocking each other about with sticks and stones,
firing pistols, and slashing with bowie-knives. Alas, poor Quakers! how
guiltless ye were of all this! It is a common belief in England, that of
this sect are _all_ the people of Pennsylvania.

In talking to an elderly lady, it is justly considered very rude to make
any allusion to her age; even if she is unmistakeably an old woman, and
acknowledges it herself. For instance, do not say--"This silk of yours
is very suitable for an elderly person"--or--"Will you take this
chair?--an old lady like you will find it very comfortable"--or--"Look,
baby--is not that grandma?"--or--"I told the servant to attend first to
you, on account of your age"--or--"Children, don't make such a
noise--have you no respect for old people?"

All this we have heard.




INCORRECT WORDS.


Every one who sees much of the world must observe with pain and surprise
various unaccountable instances of improper and incorrect words that
sometimes disfigure the phraseology of females who have gone through a
course of fashionable education, and mixed in what is really genteel
society. These instances, it is true, are becoming every day more rare;
but we regret that they should exist at all. Early impressions are hard
to eradicate. Bad habits of speaking are formed in childhood: sometimes
from the society of illiterate parents, but more frequently from that of
nurses and servants; and if not corrected or shaken off in due time,
will cling like burrs to the diction of women who are really ladies in
every thing else. Such women will say "that there," and "this
here"--"them girls"--"them boys"--"I don't want no more"--"I didn't hear
nothing about it"--"I didn't see nobody there"--"I won't do so no more."
And other similar violations of grammar; and grammar is never more
palpably outraged than when two negatives are used for an affirmative.
It is surely shorter and easier to say, "I want no more"--"I heard
nothing about it"--"I saw nobody there"--"I will do so no more."

Another grammatical error, less glaring, but equally incorrect, is the
too common practice of converting a certainty into an uncertainty by
saying, "I have no doubt but he was there." As if his being there was
your only doubt. You should say, "I have no doubt of his being there."
"I have no doubt but that he wrote it," seems to signify that you do
doubt his writing it, and that you are nearly sure he did not. The
proper phrase is, "I have no doubt of his writing it." "I do not doubt
but that she knew it long ago," implies that you do doubt her having
known it. It should be, "I do not doubt her knowing it long ago." Leave
out _but_, when you talk of doubting.

No word is proper that does not express the true meaning. For instance,
it is not right to call a township a town. A township is a section of
land that may consist entirely of forests and farms, and may not
comprise even a small village or hamlet. A town resembles a city in
being closely built up with streets of adjoining houses. Men cannot go
fishing or hunting in a _town_, though they may in a township. We are
surprised to find this misapplication of the word among some of the most
distinguished of the New-England _literati_. Perhaps it explains
Jonathan's perplexity in one of the old Yankee Doodle songs:

    "He said he couldn't see the town,
      There were so many houses."

We hope it is not necessary to caution our readers against the most
provincial of Yankee provincialisms, such as, "I hadn't ought," or "I
shouldn't ought"--or "It warn't," instead of "It was not"--or the
exclamations, "Do tell!" or "I want to know," ejaculated as a token of
surprise the moment after you have told, and made known. The common
English habit, or rather a habit of the common English, of using
continually the words "you know," and "you know," is very tiresome,
particularly when they are talking of something that you cannot possibly
be acquainted with. Check them by saying, "No, I do not know." They also
make great use of the word "monstrous"--ugly as that word is. Do not
imitate them in saying that you are "monstrous glad," or "monstrous
sorry," or "monstrous tired," or that a young lady is "monstrous
pretty." We have heard even "monstrous little."

We advise our New-England friends to eschew, both in speaking and
writing, all Yankee phrases that do not convey the exact meaning of the
words. For instance, to "_turn out_ the tea," instead of to "_pour_ it
out." There can be no turn given, in this process, to the spout or
handle of the tea-pot. On the contrary, it cannot pour well unless it is
held straight. To "cut the eggs," instead of to beat them. The motion of
beating eggs does not cut them. "Braiding eggs," is still worse. But we
believe that this braiding is not the same as cutting. What is it?

Two young officers were travelling in the far West when they stopped to
take supper at a small road-side tavern, kept by a very rough Yankee
woman. The landlady, in a calico sun-bonnet, and bare feet, stood at
the head of the table to pour out. She enquired of her guests, "if they
chose long sweetening, or short sweetening in their coffee." The first
officer, supposing that "long sweetening" meant a large portion of that
article, chose it accordingly. What was his dismay when he saw their
hostess dip her finger deep down into an earthen jar of honey that stood
near her, and then stir it (the finger) round in the coffee. His
companion, seeing this, preferred "short sweetening." Upon which the
woman picked up a large lump of maple sugar that lay in a brown paper on
the floor beside her, and biting off a piece, put it into his cup. Both
the gentlemen dispensed with coffee that evening. This anecdote we heard
from the sister of one of those officers.

"Emptyings" is not a good name for yeast. "Up chamber, up garret, down
cellar," are all wrong. Why not say, "up in the chamber, up in the
garret, down in the kitchen, down in the cellar" &c.? Why should a
mirthful fit of laughter be called "a gale"? "Last evening we were all
in such a gale!"

Snow and ice are not the same. Therefore a snowball should not be called
an ice-ball, which latter might be a very dangerous missile.

Pincushions are pincushions, and not pin-balls, unless they are of a
globular shape. If in the form of hearts, diamonds, &c., they are not
balls.

When you are greatly fatigued, say so--and not that you are "almost beat
out." When the Yankees are "beat out," the English are quite "knocked
up." The English are "starved with cold"--Americans only starve with
hunger. They may perish with cold; but unless hunger is added, they will
not starve.

It is wrong to say that certain articles of food are healthy or
unhealthy. Wholesome and unwholesome are the right words. A pig may be
healthy or unhealthy while alive; but after he is killed and becomes
pork, he can enjoy no health, and suffer no sickness.

If you have been accustomed to pronounce the word "does" as "doos," get
rid of the custom as soon as you can. Also, give up saying "pint" for
"point," "jint" for "joint," "anint" for "anoint," &c. Above all, cease
saying "featur, creatur, natur, and raptur."

In New England it is not uncommon to hear the word "ugly" applied to a
bad temper. We have heard, "He will never do for president, because he
is so ugly." On our observing that we had always considered the
gentleman in question, as rather a handsome man, it was explained that
he was considered ugly in disposition.

A British traveller, walking one day in a suburb of Boston, saw a woman
out on a door-step whipping a screaming child. "Good woman," said the
stranger, "why do you whip that boy so severely?" She answered, "I
_will_ whip him, because he is so ugly." The Englishman walked on; but
put down in his journal that "American mothers are so cruel as to beat
their children, merely because they are not handsome."

No genteel Bostonian should call Faneuil Hall, "Old Funnel," or talk of
the "Quinsey market," instead of Quincy, or speak of "Bacon street," or
"Bacon Hill." That place was so called from a beacon, or signal-pole
with a light at the top, and never was particularly celebrated for the
pickling and smoking of pork.

The word "slump," or "slumped," has too coarse a sound to be used by a
lady.

When you have exchanged one article for another, say so, and not that
you have "traded it."

Do not say, "I should admire to read that book," "I should admire to
hear that song," "I should admire to see the president." Substitute, "I
should like to read that book," "I should like to hear that song," "I
should like to see the president."

Using the word "love" instead of "like" is not peculiar to the ladies of
any section of the Union. But they may assure themselves it is wrong to
talk of _loving_ any thing that is eatable. They may _like_ terrapins,
oysters, chicken-salad, or ice-cream; but they need not _love_ terrapins
or oysters, or _love_ chicken-salad.

We remember, in the farce of Modern Antiques, laughing at an awkward
servant-girl bringing in a dish of salad to a supper-table, before the
company had assembled, and, after taking a large bite, turning her
foolish face toward the audience, and saying, "I loves beet-root."

Even if you are a provincial New-Yorker, give up calling the door-step
or porch by the ancient Dutch name of "stoop," (stoep,) and do not talk
of going out on the stoop, or sitting in the stoop. When a load of wood
or coal is put down at your door, say not that it is "dumped." Never
speak of visiting friends that "live to Brooklyn," or "live to Newark."
They live _at_ those places, not _to_ them. The word "muss" sounds
badly, when a young lady says, "her scarf is mussed," or her collar is
"mussed"--or that her bureau drawers are all in a muss. The English
synonyme, "mess," has _rather_ a better sound. Be it also remembered
that a stool is not a bench. A bench holds several people, a stool but
one.

When you mean that an article of dress (a bonnet or a cap) is neat and
pretty, do not say that it is cunning. An inanimate object cannot be
cunning. To be cunning requires some mind. We are sorry to say that we
have heard females who, when they intend to be witty, talk of taking a
snooze, (which means a nap,) and speak of a comic anecdote as being
"rich," and of a man in faded clothes as looking "seedy." We have heard
Philadelphia ladies speak of a "great big" house, or a "great big" ship;
and there are still some who _expect_ what has already come to pass--as,
"I expect it rained somewhere last night"--"I expect she arrived
yesterday"--"I expect he went to Baltimore." In all these cases the
proper term is "I suppose," and not "I expect."

The word "mayhap" (instead of perhaps) is a positive vulgarism. It is of
English origin, but is only used in England by very low people--and by
English writers, never.

We have little tolerance for young ladies, who, having in reality
neither wit nor humour, set up for both, and having nothing of the
right stock to go upon, substitute coarseness and impertinence, (not to
say impudence,) and try to excite laughter, and attract the attention of
gentlemen, by talking slang. Where do they get it? How do they pick it
up? From low newspapers, or from vulgar books? Surely not from low
companions?

We have heard one of these ladies, when her collar chanced to be pinned
awry, say that it was put on drunk--also that her bonnet was drunk,
meaning crooked on her head. When disconcerted, she was "floored." When
submitting to do a thing unwillingly, "she was brought to the scratch."
Sometimes "she did things on the sly." She talked of a certain great
vocalist "singing like a beast." She believed it very smart and piquant
to use these vile expressions. It is true, when at parties, she always
had half a dozen gentlemen about her; their curiosity being excited as
to what she would say next. And yet she was a woman of many good
qualities; and one who boasted of having always "lived in society."

We think that gentlemen lose a particle of their respect for young
ladies who allow their names to be abbreviated into such cognomens as
Kate, Madge, Bess, Nell, &c. Surely it is more lady-like to be called
Catharine, Margaret, Eliza, or Ellen. We have heard the beautiful name
Virginia degraded into Jinny; and Harriet called Hatty, or even Hadge.

A very silly practice has been introduced of writing Sally,
Sallie--Fanny, Fannie--Mary, Marie--Abby, Abbie, &c. What would our
grand-parents have thought of Pollie, Mollie, Peggie, Kittie, Nancie?
Suppose young men were to adopt it, and sign themselves, Sammie, Billie,
Dickie, Tommie, &c.!

By-the-bye, unless he is a relation, let no young lady address a
gentleman by his Christian name. It is a familiarity which he will not
like.



BORROWING.


Any article you are likely to want on more than one occasion, it is
better to buy than to borrow. If your own, you can have it always at
hand: you will lay yourself under no obligation to a lender, and incur
no responsibility as to its safety while in your possession. But when
you _do_ borrow, see that the article is speedily returned. And, under
no consideration, take the liberty of lending it to any person whatever,
before restoring it to the owner. Apologies and expressions of regret
are no compensation, should it be out of your power to replace it if
injured or lost.

When you ask to borrow a thing, do not say, "Will you _loan_ it to me?"
The word "loan" is, by good talkers, and good writers, never used but as
a substantive: notwithstanding that Johnson gives it as a verb also, but
only on one obscure authority--and Johnson is not now regarded as
infallible. To _lend_, not to _loan_, is the usual and proper
expression. As a substantive it is generally employed in a commercial
and political sense, or to denote a large sum borrowed for a public and
important purpose. It is true you can say, "May I request the loan of
your fan?" "Will you permit me to ask the loan of this book?" But it is
much easier and smoother to say simply, "Will you lend me your fan for a
few minutes?" "Will you be kind enough to lend me this book?"

No articles, perhaps, are more frequently borrowed than umbrellas, and
none are returned with so little punctuality. Frequently, a borrowed
umbrella is never thought of by the borrower, till after the weather
clears up; the lender, most probably, suffering inconvenience for want
of it. Often it is detained till the next rain, when the lender has to
take the trouble of sending for it. And then it is very possible it may
not be found at all; some person in the mean time having nefariously
carried it off. In such a case, it is a matter of common honesty for the
careless borrower to replace that umbrella with a new one; as she is not
to suppose that empty expressions of regret or unmeaning apologies will
be sufficient compensation for a substantial loss.

To avoid any difficulties concerning umbrellas, it is safest, in cloudy
weather, not to leave home without one. Many persons venture out beneath
a threatening sky, unwilling to encumber themselves with an umbrella,
which (possibly) they may not chance to require before they got home.
Their dependance is on stopping in at the house of a friend, and
borrowing one there. But is it not better to incommode yourself a little
by carrying a closed umbrella, even if you should _not_ find occasion to
use it, than to hasten rapidly through the street to reach a shelter
when you find the rain beginning to drop; and afterwards to deprive your
friend, even temporarily, of an article which the wet weather may
render it inconvenient to spare. Also, you may be caught by a sudden
shower, at a considerable distance from the dwelling of the person with
whom you are acquainted, and you may find the omnibuses all full, (as
they generally are when it rains,) and no other vehicle in sight.
Therefore, when the wind is in a rainy quarter, and the sky louring, be
always on the safe side, and take an umbrella with you on leaving home.

Every lady should own a small light umbrella, or else a very large
parasol, of extra size, covered with strong India silk that will not
easily tear or fade, and that may be used, on occasion, for either sun
or rain; and that will not be cumbrous to carry, though quite large
enough to shelter _one_ person. In truth, we have found but few
umbrellas, however large, that could effectually cover _two_ persons
(unless they were people of very small size) so that the rain did not
drop upon the off-shoulder of one or the other. You cannot be well
screened by an umbrella, unless you carry it all the time steadily in
your _own_ hands, and over yourself alone. And politeness requires that
you should give your companion the best of the shelter. So when two
ladies go out together, the clouds portending rain, let each take an
umbrella for herself, and then much injury to bonnets and shawls may be
avoided.

These small light umbrellas are excellent to travel with, and especially
useful in the transit from car to steamboat, or even from the house to
the carriage. When not in "actual service," keep this umbrella beside
you with your shawl and your travelling satchel. It will be useful
during the journey, if packed away in a trunk.[15]

When you purchase an umbrella, desire that, before sending it home, your
name be engraved on the little plate at the termination of the handle,
or else on the slide. "To make assurance doubly sure," you may get the
name painted in full in small white or yellow letters on the _inside_ of
one of the gores of silk. These letters will not be conspicuous on the
outside, but they will always serve to identify the umbrella. Your
residence (if permanent) may be added. When about to travel, sew a small
card with your address near the bottom of one of the gores inside. This
card may be changed when staying at a new place. With these precautions,
and a little care, (unless you are habitually thoughtless and
forgetful,) you may carry an umbrella from Maine to Florida without
losing it.

All the members of a family should be provided with at least one
rain-umbrella of their own, and these should be kept up-stairs when not
likely to be wanted. There is always great danger of their being
purloined, or _borrowed_, if left in the hall. Persons who would not,
for the world, be known to pilfer a single cent, are by no means
particular with regard to detaining an umbrella or a book.

Umbrellas for the kitchen can now be had as low as seventy-five cents,
or one dollar. If of coloured cotton (brown or blue) and highly glazed,
they will turn off a moderate rain very well, but a drenching shower may
cause the dye or colouring to run in streams. For very common use,
though higher in price, the best are of oil-cloth, or of brown
unbleached linen. The handsomest umbrellas are of blue or brown India
silk, with steel frames, and a small silver name-plate on the handle. A
green silk umbrella will soon be spoiled by the rain, and none look so
badly in a short time. We have known a lady's bonnet entirely ruined by
the drippings from a green parasol, hastily put up as a small screen
from a sudden shower. No colour stands the sun and damp so badly as
green.

After borrowing an umbrella, fail not to send it back immediately,
unless you have previously ascertained from the owner that it will not
be wanted for two or three hours. In that case, you will have time to
dry it before it goes home; and this should be done as soon as possible,
that it may be returned in good order. If left in the entry or hall, it
may be carried off; or, in plain words, stolen. Let it be dried under
your own inspection, spreading it wide open, and standing it on the
floor. If dried fast, and in an expanded position, the wetting will not
perceptibly injure it. But if left shut and standing up closed, with the
wet soaking into the umbrella, it will dry in discoloured streaks, and
be spoiled. If the spring or any other part of a borrowed umbrella gets
broken or injured while in your possession, be sure to have it repaired
before sending home. There is a meanness verging on dishonesty in
leaving this to be done by the owner.

If the cheap or common umbrellas are given up to the care of the
domestics, and kept in the kitchen, in all probability they will soon
disappear altogether, and be no longer forthcoming when wanted. They
will lend them to their friends, and lose them in various ways. The
umbrellas should be kept in some small room or closet up-stairs; and
when required, the servants should come and ask for them; bringing them
back when done with, and dried.

When you go out to tea, even in a summer evening, carry a shawl on your
arm to throw over your shoulders before coming out into the night-air.
This will preclude the necessity of borrowing one of your friend, should
the weather have changed and grown cooler. Also, to prevent any risk
from damp pavements, take with you a pair of over-shoes, (India-rubber,
of course,) or else a pair of inside-soles, such as you can conveniently
slip into your pocket. We have found no inside-soles equal to those of
lamb-skin with the wool left on the upper-side; the under-side of the
skin being coated with India-rubber varnish to render them water-proof.
These soles are both warm and dry, and are far pleasanter than cork
soles covered with flannel, and more lasting. But if you are obliged to
borrow things to wear home, see that they are sent back next morning, if
not the same evening, and in good order--the shawl well-dried from the
damp, and folded smoothly, and the over-shoes cleaned nicely.

Always take a fan with you on going to a place of public amusement. You
will be sure to require it, and it is better than to depend on fanning
yourself with the bill or programme, or borrowing the fan of a more
provident friend, and perhaps forgetting to return it.

With regard to the practice of borrowing articles of household use, it
is generally a custom "more honoured in the breach than the observance,"
particularly when living in a place where all such things can be easily
obtained by sending to the shops. There are persons who, with ample
means of providing themselves with all that is necessary for domestic
service, are continually troubling their neighbours for the loan of a
hammer, a screw-driver, a gimlet, a carpet-stretcher, a bed-stead screw,
a fluting-iron, a preserving kettle, jelly-moulds, ice-cream freezers,
&c. &c. If these or any other articles _must_ be borrowed, let them be
returned promptly, and in good order.

If, in consequence of the unexpected arrival of company, any thing for
the table is borrowed of a neighbour, such as tea, coffee, butter, &c.,
see that it is punctually returned; equal in quantity, and in quality;
or rather superior. Habitual borrowers are very apt to forget this piece
of honesty, either neglecting to return the things at all, or meanly
substituting inferior articles--or perhaps laying themselves under such
an imputation without actually deserving it, should the lender be
ill-natured or untruthful. There is a homely proverb, "To go a-borrowing
is to go a-sorrowing."

We have been told of a very aristocratic but very economical lady, in
one of our large cities, who was in the almost daily practice of
borrowing things of a neighbour to whom she never condescended to speak.
On one occasion she borrowed the use of that neighbour's fire to roast a
pair of fowls.

Avoid borrowing change, or small sums. It is possible that you may
really forget to repay them; but then it is also possible that you may
be suspected of forgetting wilfully. So do not trust much to your
memory. It is a true remark, that there are few instances of a borrower
being so oblivious as to offer twice over the return of a small loan,
forgetting that it had been paid already.

In borrowing a dress as a pattern, it is safest not to try it upon
yourself, lest some part of the body should be stretched or frayed.
Also, in trying on a bonnet or cap that is not your own, refrain from
tying the strings; as every tying will give them additional wrinkles or
rumples, and perhaps somewhat soil them. Never put on another person's
gloves.

Should you be staying at a boarding-house, do not depend on "the lady in
the next room," or any other lady, to lend you things which you can
procure quite as easily as she can. Keep yourself always provided with
pen, ink, and paper, envelopes, wafers, sealing-wax, pencils,
post-office stamps, &c. Also with sewing implements.

When a friend lends you a handkerchief, a collar, or any other washable
article, see that it is nicely washed, and done up, before returning it
to her,--and do so promptly. If an article of jewellery, carry it back
to her yourself, and put it into her own hand, to preclude all risk of
loss. She will not be so ungenerous as to tell any person that she has
lent it to you; and will for a while afterward, refrain from wearing it
herself, in any company where it may be recognized.

Should a visiter accidentally leave her handkerchief at your house, have
it washed and ironed before restoring it to her.

On borrowing a book, immediately put a cover upon it--and let the cover
be of clean, smooth, white or light-coloured paper. What is called
nankeen paper is best and strongest for this purpose. Newspaper, or any
paper that is printed, makes a vile book-cover. Beside its mean and
dirty appearance, the printing-ink will not only soil your own hands
while reading, but will do more injury to the binding than if it was
left uncovered.

To cover a book neatly--take a sheet of nice paper of more than
sufficient size, and lay the book open upon it. Cut a notch or
indentation at the top and bottom of this paper, so as to admit the back
of the book, making the notch exactly the width of the back, and two or
three inches deep. Fold down the edges of the paper straightly,
smoothly, and evenly, over the edges of the binding or cover. Fold the
corners of the paper nicely underneath, (trimming off the superfluous
paper that turns under,) making them lie as flat as possible. You may
secure all the folds at the corners with small wafers, pins, or
paste-cement. If you use pins, take care to stick them so as not to
scratch the inside of the binding, or to prick and tear the fly-leaves.
The paper-cover should not only be strong, but smooth also; if coarse
and rough, it will injure the binding. When you send the book home, put
it up neatly, so as to make a well-looking package; secured with either
a string or a seal, and direct it to the owner.

If the book is a pamphlet, and the sewing-thread gives way, sew it
again, with a large needle and a strong brown thread--not white cotton.
If not sewed immediately, it will fall apart, and some leaves may drop
out, and be lost. If, by any unlucky accident, a leaf is torn, lay the
two pieces nicely together, and sew them, lightly, with a rather fine
thread. But if one side of the torn page is blank, it will be best to
mend it by pasting a small narrow slip of white paper underneath, so as
to unite the torn edges neatly.

You may have excellent paste or cement, continually at hand, by buying
at a druggist's an ounce of the _best and cleanest_ gum tragacanth, with
a little bit of corrosive sublimate not larger than a grain of corn, and
dissolving them in a large half-pint of clear water, either warm or
cold. Pick the gum tragacanth very clean, freeing it carefully from all
dust and impurities. Put it with the corrosive sublimate into a white or
queensware vessel having a close cover, and holding a pint, to allow for
swelling. Pour on the water; cover it closely; and stir it _with a
stick_, several times during the day. When sufficiently dissolved, the
paste will be smooth throughout. The corrosive sublimate will cause it
to keep good for a year or more; and it is an excellent and most
convenient cement for all purposes, from wall-paper to artificial
flowers. It must on no account be kept in a metal vessel or be stirred
with a metal spoon, as it will then turn black. No house should be
without this paste--and it should find a place in every library and
office. When it is nearly used up, and becomes dry at the bottom, pour
on a little water, and it will dissolve again.

Make no remarks with pen or pencil on the margin of any book that does
not belong to yourself. Whatever may be your own opinion of certain
passages, you have no right to disturb other readers by obtruding upon
them these opinions, unasked for. The pleasure of reading a book from a
public library, is frequently marred by finding, as you proceed, that
some impertinent fools have been before you, and scribbled their silly
comments all through; or indulged in sneers and vituperations directed
at the author. You may lessen this annoyance by turning over all the
leaves before you begin reading, and erasing all the marginal remarks
with India rubber; and this will also be an act of kindness to the next
reader after yourself. When written with ink, (as is often the case,)
there is no remedy; and you must endure the infliction of being annoyed
throughout the book by these gratuitous criticisms. In a book, even
belonging to yourself, it is well to use the pencil sparingly; and only
to correct an error of the press, or a chronological mistake of the
author. All readers like to form their own opinions as they go along,
without any prompting from those who have preceded them.

Never, on any consideration, allow yourself to lend a borrowed book. If
requested to do so, it should be a sufficient excuse to say that "it is
not your own." But if still urged, persist in declining steadily; for it
is a liberty you have no right to take with any article belonging to
another. Even if the owner is your sister, you should lend nothing of
hers without first obtaining her permission. Whatever you borrow
yourself, should pass safely from your hands to those of the owner. If a
friend of yours is very desirous of reading a borrowed book, and has no
other means of obtaining it, and you think you can depend on her
carefulness and punctuality, (not else,) you may promise "to request for
her the favour." And when the owner has consented, (and not till then,)
you may transfer the book to the new borrower with strict injunctions to
take great care of it, and to return it as soon as possible.

I have known a borrowed book travel round a whole circle of relations
and acquaintances, till, when sent home at last, it was literally worn
out by dint of use. And this when nearly the whole set were persons who
could well afford to buy all they were desirous of reading. Many ladies
like very well to read when they can do so at the cost of their friends;
but they seem to regard the purchase of any thing to improve the mind,
or amuse the fancy, as throwing away money which they would expend more
to their satisfaction in articles of personal decoration. And is it not
melancholy to see an intelligent child craving in vain for books, while
bedizened with finery to gratify the vanity of an ostentatious mother?

If, with the permission of the owner, you have lent a borrowed book to a
person who, having lost or injured it, still has the presumption to ask
you to intercede for the loan of another, you are bound to refuse the
request; and do so with civility but steadiness, assigning the true
reason. It may be a salutary lesson to that borrower.

Remember never to send home any article in a wrapper of newspaper. Keep
always in the house a supply of good wrapping-paper, bought for the
purpose, and also of balls of twine. For putting up small things, what
is called shoe-paper is very useful. It is both nice and cheap, selling
from fifty to sixty cents per ream, according to the size, and there are
twenty quires in a ream. There are varieties of stronger and larger
wrapping-paper for articles that require such, and for parcels that are
to be sent to far-off places, or to go by public conveyances. Such
packages are best secured by red tape and sealing-wax. At every
stationer's may be purchased all varieties of paper.

Be particularly careful of borrowed magazines, as the loss of one number
spoils a whole set, and you may find great difficulty in replacing a
lost number. Even a newspaper should be punctually returned. The owner
may wish to file it, or to send it away to a friend. If lost or defaced
while in your possession, send to the publishing-office and buy another.
It is unsafe to leave the book you are reading in the parlour of a
hotel. Always carry it away with you, whenever you quit the
room--otherwise you will be likely to see it no more.

In America, books are so cheap (not to mention the numerous public
libraries) that in most instances all who can afford it had better buy
than borrow, particularly such works as are worth a second reading. If
you find your books accumulating inconveniently, give away a portion of
them to some lover of reading, who, less fortunate than yourself, is
unable to expend much money with the booksellers.

I have often wondered to see a fair young stranger sitting day after
day, idle and listless in the drawing-room of a hotel, when she might
have known that there were bookstores in the immediate neighbourhood.

If, while in your possession, a borrowed book is irreparably injured, it
is your duty to replace it by purchasing for the owner another copy.
And, if that cannot be procured, all you can do is to buy a work of
equal value, and to present _that_, as the only compensation in your
power. Observe the same rule with all borrowed articles, lost or
injured. The lender is surely not the person to suffer from the
carelessness of the borrower. Leave no borrowed books in the way of
children, and never give a young child a book to play with. Eat no cake
or fruit over an open book, lest it be greased or stained. And take care
not to blister or spoil the binding by putting it down in a wet place,
for instance, on a slopped table.

Some young ladies have a bad habit of biting their fingers, especially
if they rejoice in handsome hands; and the same ladies, by way of
variety, are prone to bite the corners of books, and the edges of
closed fans. So it is dangerous to trust these articles in their
vicinity. We have seen the corners of an elegant Annual nearly bitten
off at a centre-table in the course of one evening. And we have seen
ice-cream eaten and wine drank over an open port-folio of beautiful
engravings.

By-the-bye, in taking up a print to look at it, always extend it
carefully with both hands, that the paper may be in no danger of
cracking or rumpling, which it cannot escape if held but in one hand,
particularly if there is a breeze blowing near it. To show a large
engraving without risk of injury, spread it out smoothly on a table;
keeping it flat by means of books or other weights, laid carefully down
on the corners, and, if the plate is _very_ large, at the sides also.
And let no one lean their elbows upon it.

It is an irksome task to show any sort of picture to people who have
neither taste, knowledge, nor enjoyment of the art. There are persons
(ungenteel ones, it is true) who seem to have no other pleasure, when
looking at a fine print or picture, than in trying to discover in the
figures or faces, fancied resemblances to those of some individuals of
their own circle: loudly declaring for instance, that, "Queen Victoria
is the very image of Sarah Smith;" "Prince Albert an exact likeness of
Dick Brown;" "the Duke of Wellington the very ditto of old Captain
Jones," &c. &c. To those "who have no painting in their souls," there is
little use in showing or explaining any fine specimen of that noblest of
the fine arts. We have heard a gentleman doubting whether a capital
portrait of Franklin was not General Washington in his everyday dress.
We could fill pages with the absurd remarks we have heard on pictures,
even from persons who have had a costly education put at them. There are
ladies who can with difficulty be made to understand the difference
between a painting and an engraving--others who think that "the same man
always makes both." Some call a coloured print a painting--others
talk[16] of themselves _painting pictures_ in albums--not understanding
that, properly speaking, they are water-colour drawings when done on
paper and with transparent tintings--while _pictures_ are painted with
oil or opaque colours on canvas or board. Frescoes are painted on new
walls before the plastering is quite dry, so that the colours
incorporate at once with the plaster, and dry along with it; acquiring
in that manner a surprising permanency.

There is another very common error, that of calling a diorama a
panorama. A panorama, correctly speaking, is a large circular
representation of one place only, (such as Rome, Athens, Thebes, Paris,)
comprising as much as the eye can take in at a view. The spectators,
looking from an elevated platform in the centre, see the painting all
around them in every direction, and appearing the size of reality, but
always stationary. The panoramas exhibited successively in London by
Barker, Burford, Catherwood and others, are admirable and truthful views
of the places they represent; and after viewing them a few minutes, you
can scarcely believe that you are not actually there, and looking at
real objects. A few of these triumphs of perspective and colouring, have
been brought to America. It were much to be wished that an arrangement
could be made for conveying every one of these fine panoramas
successively across the Atlantic, and exhibiting them in all our
principal cities. It would be a good speculation.

It is difficult to imagine whence originated the mistake of calling a
diorama a panorama, which it is _not_. A diorama is one of those
numerous flat-surface paintings of which we have had so many, (and some
few of them very good,) and which, moving on unseen rollers, glide or
slide along, displaying every few minutes a new portion of the scenery.

The error has grown so common that persons fall habitually into it,
though knowing all the time that it _is_ an error. To correct it, let
the exhibiters of dioramas cease to call them _panoramas_, and give them
their proper name, both in their advertisements and in their verbal
descriptions. Sebron's magnificent representation of the departure of
the Israelites, that looked so amazingly real, was not a diorama, for it
did not move, and not a panorama, for it was not circular. But it was a
colossal picture, so excellent that at the first glance it seemed to be
no picture at all, but the real scene, with the real people.


 In buying a _handsome_ parasol or umbrella, see that it has a
folding-joint in the middle of the stick, and that this joint works
easily, so that there may be no difficulty in packing it in a trunk or
box. To prevent the silk being rubbed, tie up the parasol in a smooth
linen case, previous to packing.

We were a few years since, told by one of our principal booksellers
that a young lady came into his store when he chanced to be at the
counter himself, and, showing him a small English prayer-book elegantly
bound, and with fine engravings, she enquired if he had any exactly like
that. On his replying in the negative, she desired that he would get
precisely such a prayer-book _made for her_, in time for church on
Sunday morning--(it was then Friday)--as she had set her mind on it. It
must have just such pictures, and just such a beautiful gilt cover. He
endeavoured in vain to convince her of the utter impossibility of
performing this feat of having one single book printed, and bound, with
plates engraved purposely for it, and all in the space of a day and a
half. She seemed much displeased, and went away, in search, as she said,
of a bookseller that was more obliging.




OFFENCES.


If the visits of an acquaintance become less frequent than formerly, the
falling off is not always to be imputed to want of regard for you, or to
having lost all pleasure in your society. The cause may be want of time,
removal to a distance, precarious health, care of children, absence from
town, family troubles, depressed fortunes, and various other
circumstances. Also, with none of these causes, visiting may gradually
and almost insensibly decline, and neither of the parties have the
slightest dislike to each other. If no offence has been intended, none
should be taken; and when you chance to meet, instead of consuming the
time in complaints of estrangement, meet as if your intercourse had
never been interrupted, and you will find it very easy to renew it; and
perhaps on a better footing than before. The renewal should be marked by
a prompt interchange of special invitations--followed by visits.

Unless your rooms are spacious, you cannot have what is called a large
general party. Some of your acquaintances must be omitted, and all that
are left out, are generally offended. Therefore it is not well ever to
have such parties, unless your accommodations are ample. _Squeezes_ are
out of fashion in the best American society. We have heard of parties at
great houses in London, where, after the rooms were crowded to
suffocation, a large portion of the company had to pass the evening on
the stairs; and where coaches, unable to draw up from the immense number
of these vehicles that were in advance, had to remain all night at the
foot of the line, with ladies sitting in them. When morning came, they
had to turn back, and drive home, the carriages being all they saw of
the party.

It is better to give two or three moderate entertainments in the course
of the season, than to crowd your rooms uncomfortably; and even then to
risk giving offence to those who could not be added to the number.

If such offence has been given, try to atone for it by inviting the
offended to dine with you, or to pass an evening, and asking at the same
time a few pleasant people whom you know she likes.

You may have a very intimate and sincere friend who does not find it
convenient to send for you every time she has company. If, in all things
else, she treats you with uniform kindness, and gives reason to believe
that she has a true affection for you, pass over these occasional
omissions of invitation, and do not call her to account, or treat her
coolly when you see her. True friendship ought not depend upon
_parties_. It should be based on a better foundation.

If no answer is returned to a note of invitation, be not hasty in
supposing that the omission has sprung from rudeness or neglect. Trust
that your friend is neither rude nor neglectful; and believe that the
answer was duly sent, but that it miscarried from some accidental
circumstance.

A friend may inadvertently say something that you do not like to hear,
or may make a remark that is not pleasant to you. Unless it is prefaced
with a _previous_ apology; or unless she desires you "not to be offended
at what she is going to say;" or unless she informs you that "she
considers it her duty always to speak her mind,"--you have no right to
suppose the offence premeditated, and therefore you should restrain your
temper, and calmly endeavour to convince her that she is wrong; or else
acknowledge that she is right. She ought then to apologize for what she
said, and you should immediately change the subject, and never again
refer to it. In this way quarrels may be prevented, and ill-feeling
crushed in the bud. When what is called "a coolness" takes place between
friends, the longer it goes on the more difficult it is to get over. But
"better late than never." If, on consideration, you find that _you_ were
in the wrong, let no false pride, no stubborn perverseness prevent you
from making that acknowledgement. If your friend, on her part, first
shows a desire for reconciliation, meet her half-way. A vindictive
disposition is a bad one, and revenge is a most unchristian feeling.
People of sense (unless the injury is very great, and of lasting
consequences) are easy to appease, because they generally have good
feelings, and know how to listen to reason. Dr. Watts most truly says--

    "The wise will let their anger cool,
      At least before 'tis night;
    But in the bosom of a fool,
      It burns till morning light."

Should you chance to be thrown into the presence of persons who have
proved themselves your enemies, and with whom you can have no
intercourse, say nothing either _to_ them or _at_ them; and do not place
yourself in their vicinity. To talk _at_ a person, is mean and vulgar.
Those who do it are fully capable of writing anonymous and insulting
letters; and they often do so. High-minded people will always be
scrupulously careful in observing toward those with whom they are at
variance, all the ceremonies usual in polite society--particularly the
conventional civilities of the table.

If you have, unfortunately, had a quarrel with a friend, talk of it to
others as little as possible; lest in the heat of anger, you may give an
exaggerated account, and represent your adversary in darker colours than
she deserves. You may be very sure these misrepresentations will reach
her ear, and be greatly magnified by every successive relater. In this
way a trifle may be swelled into importance; a mole-hill may become a
mountain; and a slight affront may embitter the feelings of future
years. "Blessed are the peacemakers,"--and a mutual friend, if
well-disposed toward both opponents, generally has it in her power to
effect a reconciliation, by repeating, kindly, any favourable remark
she may chance to have heard one of the offended parties make on the
other. In truth, we wish it were the universal custom for all people to
tell other people whatever good they may hear of them--instead of the
wicked and hateful practice of telling only the bad. Make it a rule to
repeat to your friends all the pleasant remarks that (as far as you
know) are made on them, and you will increase their happiness, and your
own popularity. We do not mean that you should flatter them, by reciting
compliments that are not true; but truth is not flattery, and there is
no reason why agreeable truths should not always be told. There would
then be far more kind feeling in the world. Few persons are so bad as
not to have some good in them. Let them hear of the good. Few are so
ugly as not to have about them something commendable even externally, if
it is only a becoming dress. Let them hear of that dress. Flattery is
praise without foundation. To tell a person with heavy, dull gray eyes,
that her eyes are of a bright and beautiful blue; to talk of her golden
locks to a woman with positive red hair of the tint called carroty; to
tell a long, thin, stoop-shouldered girl, that she possesses the light
and airy form of a sylph; or a short-necked, fat one that her figure has
the dignity of an empress; to assure a faded matron that she looks like
a young girl; to fall into raptures on listening to bad music, or when
viewing a drawing that depicts nothing intelligible; or praising album
poetry that has neither "rhyme nor reason,"--all this is gross
flattery, which the object (if she has any sense) will easily detect,
and suspect that you are trying experiments on her vanity and credulity.

Still where agreeable qualities _really_ exist, it is not amiss to
allude to them delicately. It will give pleasure without compromising
veracity.

When any thing complimentary is said to you, acknowledge it by a bow and
smile, but do not attempt an answer unless you can say something in
return that will be equally sincere and pleasant. Most probably you
cannot; therefore look gratified, and bow your thanks, but remain
silent. Few ladies are distinguished, like the Harriet Byron of
Grandison, "for a very pretty manner of returning a compliment." Do not
reject the compliment by pretending to prove that you do not deserve it.
But if it is a piece of bare-faced flattery, the best answer is to look
gravely, and say or do nothing.

Should you chance accidentally to overhear a remark to your
disadvantage, consider first if there may not be some truth in it. If
you feel that there is, turn it to profitable account, and try to
improve, or to get rid of the fault, whatever it may be. But never show
resentment at any thing not intended for your ear, unless it is
something of such vital importance as to render it necessary that you
should come forward in self-defence. These instances, however, are of
rare occurrence.

If you are so placed that you can hear the conversation of persons who
are talking about you, it is very mean to sit there and listen.
Immediately remove to a distance far enough to be out of hearing.

It is a proverb that listeners seldom hear any good of themselves. It
were a pity if they should. Eavesdropping or listening beneath an open
window, the crack of a door, or through a key-hole, are as dishonourable
as to pick pockets.



OBLIGATIONS TO GENTLEMEN.


In her intercourse with gentlemen, a lady should take care to avoid all
pecuniary obligations. The civility that a gentleman conventionally owes
to a lady is a sufficient tax--more she has no right to expect, or to
accept. A man of good sense, and of true politeness, will not be
offended at her unwillingness to become his debtor. On the contrary, he
will respect her delicacy, and approve her dignity; and consent at once
to her becoming her own banker on all occasions where expense is to be
incurred. This is the custom in Europe; and is, in most cases, a very
good one.

When invited to join a party to a place of amusement, let her consent,
if she wishes; but let her state expressly that it is only on condition
of being permitted to pay for her own ticket. If she steadily adheres to
this custom, it will soon be understood that such is always her
commendable practice; and she can then, with perfect propriety, at any
time, ask for a seat among friends who intend going. To this
accommodation she could not invite herself, if in the continual habit of
visiting public places at the expense of others. The best time for a
lady to pay for herself is to put her money into the hand of the
gentleman _previous_ to their departure for the place of performance.
He will not be so rude as to refuse to take it. If he does refuse, she
should evince her resentment by going with him no more.

Young men of limited means are frequently drawn into expenses they can
ill afford, by being acquainted with young ladies who profess a passion
for equestrian exercises--a most inconvenient passion for one who has
not a horse of her own, or who lives in a family where no horses are
kept. If her gentleman is obliged to hire, not only a horse for himself,
but also one for the lady, let her have sufficient consideration _not_
to propose to him that they should take rides together--and let her not
draw him into an invitation, by her dwelling excessively on the delight
of horseback excursions. In cities, these rides are expensive luxuries
to those who keep no horses. Few city ladies ride well, (even if they
have been at riding-school,) for want of daily practice out of doors.
They are not exactly at ease on the horse, and always seem somewhat
afraid of him; at least till they are "off the stones," and out in the
open country. While in the streets, the rare sight of a lady on
horseback attracts much attention, and a crowd of boys gathers round to
see her mount her steed, or alight from it. This to a young lady of
delicacy is very embarrassing, or ought to be.

In the country, the case is totally different. There, "practice makes
perfect." The ladies, being accustomed to riding their own horses from
childhood, acquire the art without any trouble, have no fear, feel
perfectly at home in the saddle, and therefore sit gracefully, and
manage their steeds easily. And as every country gentleman has a
riding-horse of his own, he can accompany a lady without the expense of
hiring.

Lay no wagers with gentlemen, and have no philopenas with them. In
betting with a lady, it is customary for the gentleman to pay whether he
wins or loses. What then does the wager imply, but a rapacious and mean
desire on the part of the lady to "get a present out of him"--as such
ladies would express it. No delicate and refined female ever bets at
all. It is a very coarse and masculine way of asserting an opinion or a
belief; and always reminds gentlemen of the race-course, or the
gaming-table.

We disapprove of ladies going to charity-fairs in the evening, when they
require a male escort--and when that escort is likely to be drawn into
paying exorbitant prices for gifts to his fair companion--particularly,
if induced to do so from the fear of appearing mean, or of being thought
wanting in benevolence. In the evening, the young ladies who "have
tables," are apt to become especially importunate in urging the sale of
their goods--and appear to great disadvantage as imitation-shop-keepers,
exhibiting a boldness in teazing that no real saleswoman would presume
to display. Then the crowd is generally great; the squeezing and pushing
very uncomfortable; and most of the company far from genteel. Ladies who
_are_ ladies, should only visit fancy-fairs in the day-time, when they
can go without gentlemen; none of whom take much pleasure in this mode
of raising money; or rather of levying contributions for special
purposes. There are other ways that are more lady-like, more effective,
less fatiguing, and more satisfactory to all concerned--and far less
detrimental to the interests of the numerous poor women who get their
living by their needles, or by their ingenuity in making ornamental
nick-nacks for sale, and who ask but a fair price for them. Dress-makers
are frequently induced to keep back portions of silk, the rightful
property of their customers, who may afterwards be put to great
inconvenience for want of them, when the dress is to be altered or
repaired. And these pieces are given to the ladies who go about begging
for materials to make pincushions, &c. for fancy-fairs. This is
dishonest. Let them go to a store and buy small pieces of silk, velvet,
ribbon, and whatever they want for these purposes.

If you have occasion to send by a gentleman a package to a
transportation-office, give him along with it the money to pay for its
carriage. If you borrow change, (even one cent,) return it to him
punctually. He ought to take it as a thing of course, without any
comment. When you commission him to buy any thing for you, if you know
the price, give the money beforehand; otherwise, pay it as soon as he
brings the article. Do all such things promptly, lest they should escape
your memory if delayed.

When visiting a fancy-store with a gentleman, refrain from excessively
admiring any handsome or expensive article you may chance to see there.
Above all, express no wish that you were able to buy it, and no regret
that you cannot, lest he should construe these extreme tokens of
admiration into hints that you wish him to buy it for you. To allow him
to do so, would on your part be very mean and indelicate, and on his
very foolish.

It ought to be a very painful office (and is a very improper one) for
young ladies to go round soliciting from gentlemen subscriptions for
charitable purposes. Still it is done. Subscription-papers should only
be offered by persons somewhat advanced in life, and of undoubted
respectability--and then the application should be made, exclusively, to
those whose circumstances are known to be affluent. People who have not
much to give, generally prefer giving that little to objects of charity
within their own knowledge. Who is there that does not know a poor
family? And without actually giving money, (which in too many instances,
is immediately appropriated by a drunken husband to supply himself with
more drink,) much may be done to procure a few comforts for a miserable
wife and children.

When you ask money for a charitable purpose, do so only when quite alone
with the person to whom you apply. It is taking an undue advantage to
make the request in presence of others--particularly if, as before
observed, there is not wealth as well as benevolence. There is a time
for all things--and young ladies are deservedly unpopular when, even in
the cause of charity, they seize every opportunity to levy contributions
on the purses of gentlemen.

It is wrong to trouble gentlemen with commissions that may cause them
inconvenience or expense. In the awful days of bandboxes, unfortunate
young men riding in stages were sometimes required to convey one of
these cumbrous receptacles of bonnets and caps a day's journey upon
their knees, to save it from rain outside. Sometimes an immense package
containing an immense shawl. We knew an officer who, by particular
desire, actually carried _three_ great shawls several hundred miles;
each bundle to be delivered at a different house in "the City of
Magnificent Distances." But as to officers, "sufferance is the badge of
all their tribe." Now these shawls should all have been sent by the
public line, even if the transportation _did_ cost something.

We repeat, that a lady cannot be too particular in placing herself under
obligations to a gentleman. She should scrupulously avoid it in every
little thing that may involve him in expense on her account. And he will
respect her the more.




CONDUCT TO LITERARY WOMEN.


On being introduced to a female writer, it is rude to say that "you have
long had a great _curiosity_ to see her." Curiosity is not the right
word. It is polite to imply that, "knowing her well by reputation, you
are glad to have an opportunity of making her personal acquaintance."
Say nothing concerning her writings, unless you chance to be alone with
her. Take care not to speak of her first work as being her best; for if
it is really so, she must have been retrograding from that time; a
falling off that she will not like to hear of. Perhaps the truth may be,
that you yourself have read only her _first_ work; and if you tell her
this, she will not be much flattered in supposing that you, in reality,
cared so little for her first book, as to feel no desire to try a
second. But she will be really gratified to learn that you are
acquainted with most of her writings; and, in the course of
conversation, it will be very pleasant for her to hear you quote
something from them.

If she is a writer of fiction, and you presume to take the liberty of
criticising her works, (as you may at her own request, or if you are
her intimate friend,) refrain from urging that certain incidents are
_improbable_, and certain characters _unnatural_. Of this it is
impossible for you to judge, unless you could have lived the very same
life that she has; known exactly the same people; and inhabited with
her the same places. Remember always that "Truth is stranger than
fiction." The French say--"Le vrai n'est pas toujours le plus
vraisemblable,"--which, literally translated, means that "Truth is not
always the most truth-like." Also, be it understood that a woman of
quick perception and good memory can see and recollect a thousand
things which would never be noticed or remembered by an obtuse or
shallow, common-place capacity. And the intellect of a good writer of
fiction is always brightened by the practice of taking in and laying
up ideas with a view toward turning them to professional use. Trust in
her, and believe that she _has_ painted from life. A sensible
fictionist always does. At the same time, be not too curious in
questioning her as to the identity of her personages and the reality
of her incidents. You have no right to expect that she will expose to
you, or to any one else, her process of arranging the story, bringing
out the characters, or concocting the dialogue. The machinery of her
work, and the hidden springs which set it in motion, she naturally
wishes to keep to herself; and she cannot be expected to lay them bare
for the gratification of impertinent curiosity, letting them become
subjects of idle gossip. Be satisfied to take her works as you find
them. If you like them, read and commend them; but do not ask her to
conduct you behind the scenes, and show you the mysteries of her
art--for writing is really an art, and one that cannot be acquired, to
any advantage, without a certain amount of talent, taste, and
cultivation, to say nothing of genius. What right have you to expect
that your literary friend will trust you with "the secrets of her
prison-house," and put it into your power to betray her confidence by
acquainting the world that a certain popular novelist has informed you
with her own lips ("but it must on no account be mentioned, as the
disclosure would give mortal offence, and create for her hosts of
enemies,") that by her character of Fanny Gadfly she really means Lucy
Giddings; that Mr. Hardcastle signifies Mr. Stone; that Old Wigmore
was modelled on no less a person than Isaac Baldwin; that Mrs.
Bastings was taken from Mrs. Sunning; and Mrs. Babes from Mrs.
Childers--&c. &c. Also, do not expect her to tell you on what facts
her incidents were founded, and whether there was any truth in them,
or if they were mere invention.

Be not inquisitive as to the length of time consumed in writing this
book or that--or how soon the work now on hand will be finished. It can
scarcely be any concern of yours, and the writer may have reasons for
keeping back the information. Rest assured that whenever a public
announcement of a new book is expedient, it will certainly be made in
print.

There are persons so rude as to question a literary woman (even on a
slight acquaintance) as to the remuneration she receives for her
writings--in plain terms, "How much did you get for that? and how much
are you to have for this? And how much do you make in the course of a
year? And how much a page do you get? And how many pages can you write
in a day?"

To any impertinent questions from a stranger-lady concerning the profits
of your pen, reply concisely, that these things are secrets between
yourself and your publishers. If you kindly condescend to answer without
evasion, these polite enquiries, you will probably hear such
exclamations as, "Why, really--you must be coining money. I think I'll
write books myself! There can't be a better trade," &c.

Ignorant people always suppose that popular writers are wonderfully
well-paid--and must be making rapid fortunes--because they neither
starve in garrets, nor wear rags--at least in America.

Never ask one writer what is her _real_ opinion of a cotemporary author.
She may be unwilling to entrust it to you, as she can have no guarantee
that you will not whisper it round till it gets into print. If she
voluntarily expresses her own opinion of another writer, and it _is_
unfavourable, be honourable enough not to repeat it; but guard it
sedulously from betrayal, and avoid mentioning it to any one.

When in company with literary women, make no allusions to "learned
ladies," or "blue stockings," or express surprise that they should have
any knowledge of housewifery, or needle-work, or dress; or that they are
able to talk on "common things." It is rude and foolish, and shows that
you really know nothing about them, either as a class or as
individuals.

Never tell an authoress that "you are afraid of her"--or entreat her
"not to put you into a book." Be assured there is no danger.

An authoress has seldom leisure to entertain morning visiters; so much
of her time being professionally occupied either in writing, or in
reading what will prepare her for writing. She should apprize all her
friends of the hours in which she is usually engaged; and then none who
are really her friends and well-wishers, will encroach upon her
convenience for any purpose of their own; unless under extraordinary
circumstances. To tell her that you were "just passing by," or "just in
the neighbourhood," and "just thought you would stop in," is a very
selfish, or at least a very inconsiderate excuse. Is she to suppose that
you do not consider her conversation worthy of a visit made on purpose?

Recollect that to a woman who gets her living by her pen, "time is
money," as it is to an artist. Therefore, encroaching on her time is
lessening her income. And yet how often is this done (either heedlessly
or selfishly) by persons professing to be her friends, and who are
habitually in the practice of interrupting her in her writing hours,
which should always be in the morning, if possible. They think it
sufficient to say, like Paul Pry, "I hope I don't intrude"--knowing all
the time that they _do_, and pretending to believe her when civility
obliges her to tell them they do _not_. Even if the visit is not a long
one, it is still an interruption. In one minute it may break a chain of
ideas which cannot be reunited, dispel thoughts that can never be
recalled, disturb the construction of a sentence, and obliterate a
recollection that will not return. And to all this the literary lady
must submit, because her so-called friend "chanced to be out that
morning shopping"--or "happened to be visiting in that part of the
town"--and therefore has called on _her_ by way of "killing two birds
with one stone." Very likely, the visiter will say to the unfortunate
visited, "I know it is inconvenient to you to see your friends in the
morning, but I never feel like going out in the afternoon. As soon as
dinner is over I must have my nap; and by the time that is finished, it
is too late for any thing else."

In consequence of these ill-timed visits, the printer may have to send
in vain for "copy" that is not yet ready; and an article written
expressly for a magazine may arrive too late for the next month, and be
therefore deferred a month later, which may subject her not only to
inconvenience, but to actual pecuniary loss--loss of money. Or, at
least, the interruption may compel her to the painful effort of trying
to finish it even by sitting up late at night, and straining her weary
eyes by lamp-light. Yet this she must endure because it suits an idle
and thoughtless _friend_ to make her a long and inopportune visit. The
children of the pen and the pencil might say to these intruders, like
the frogs in the pond when the boys were pelting them with stones--"This
may be sport to you, but it is death to us."

If, when admitted into her study, you should find her writing-table in
what appears to you like great confusion, recollect that there is
really no wit in a remark too common on such occasions,--"Why, you look
quite _littery_,"--a poor play on the words _literary_ and _litter_. In
all probability, she knows precisely where to lay her hand upon every
paper on the table: having in reality placed them exactly to suit her
convenience. Though their arrangement may be quite unintelligible to the
uninitiated, there is no doubt method (her own method, at least) in
their apparent disorder. It is not likely she may have time to put her
writing table in nice-looking order every day. To have it done by
servants is out of the question, as _they_ would make "confusion worse
confounded;" being of course unable to comprehend how _such a table_
should be arranged.

If you chance to find an authoress occupied with her needle, express no
astonishment, and refrain from exclaiming, "What! can _you_ sew?" or, "I
never supposed a literary lady could even hem a handkerchief!"

This is a false, and if expressed in words, an insulting idea. A large
number of literary females are excellent needle-women, and good
housewives; and there is no reason why they should not be. The same
vigour of character and activity of intellect which renders a woman a
_good_ writer, will also enable her to acquire with a quickness, almost
intuitive, a competent knowledge of household affairs, and of the art of
needle-work. And she will find, upon making the attempt, that, with a
little time and a little perseverance, she may become as notable a
personage (both in theory and practice) as if she had never read a
book, or written a page.

The Dora of David Copperfield is an admirable illustration of the fact
that a silly, illiterate woman may be the worst of housewives. Dickens
has unquestionably painted this character exactly from life. But that he
always does. He must have known a Dora. And who has not?

If you find your literary friend in dèshabille, and she apologizes for
it--(she had best _not_ apologize)--tell her not that "authoresses are
privileged persons, and are never expected to pay any attention to
dress." Now, literary slatterns are not more frequent than slatterns who
are not literary. It is true that women of enlarged minds, and really
good taste, do not think it necessary to follow closely all the changes
and follies of fashion, and to wear things that are inconvenient,
uncomfortable, and unbecoming, merely because milliners, dress-makers,
&c. have pronounced them "the last new style."

It is ill-manners to refer in any way to the profession of the person to
whom you are talking, unless that person is an intimate friend, and you
are alone with her; and unless she herself begins the subject. Still
worse, to allude to their profession as if you supposed it rendered them
different from the rest of the world, and marked them with peculiarities
from which other people are exempt.

It is true that authorlings and poetizers are apt to affect
eccentricity. Real authors, and even real poets, (by real we mean good
ones,) have generally a large portion of common sense to balance their
genius, and are therefore seldom guilty of the queernesses unjustly
imputed to the whole fraternity.

When in company with a literary lady with whom you are not on very
confidential terms, it is bad taste to talk to her exclusively of books,
and to endeavour to draw out her opinion of authors with whom she is
personally acquainted--and whom she will, of course, be unwilling to
criticise, (at least in miscellaneous society,) lest her remarks should
be invidiously or imprudently repeated, and even get into print. "Any
thing new in the literary world?" is a question by which some people
always commence conversation with an author. Why should it be supposed
that they always "carry the shop along with them," or that they take no
interest or pleasure in things not connected with books. On the
contrary, they are glad to be allowed the privilege of unbending like
other people. And a good writer is almost always a good talker, and
fully capable of conversing well on various subjects. Try her.

It was beautifully said of Jane Taylor, the charming author of a popular
and never-tiring little book of "Original Poems for Children," that "you
only knew that the stream of literature had passed over her mind by the
fertility it left behind it."

We have witnessed, when two distinguished lady-writers chanced to be at
the same party, an unmannerly disposition to "pit them against each
other"--placing them side by side, or _vis-à-vis_, and saying something
about, "When Greek meets Greek," &c., and absolutely collecting a
circle round them, to be amused or edified by the expected dialogue.
This is rude and foolish.

It is not treating a talented woman with due consideration, to be active
in introducing to her the silliest and flattest people in the room,
because the said flats have been worked up into a desire of seeing, face
to face, "a live authoress"--though in all probability they have not
read one of her works.

That notorious lion-hunter, the Countess of Cork, was so candid as to
say to certain celebrated writers, "I'll sit by _you_ because you are
famous." To a very charming American lady whom she was persuading to
come to her party, she frankly added, "My dear, you really must not
refuse me. Don't you know you are my decoy-duck."

There are mothers (called pattern-mothers) who uphold the theory that
every thing in the world must bend to the advantage (real or supposed)
of children, that is, of their own children--and who have continually on
their lips the saying, "a mother's first duty is to her children." So it
is, and it is her duty not to render them vain, impertinent, conceited,
and obtrusive, by allowing them to suppose that they must on all
occasions be brought forward; and that their mother's visiters have
nothing to do but to improve and amuse _them_. Therefore a literary lady
often receives a more than hint from such a mother to talk only on
edifying subjects when the dear little creatures are present; and then
the conversation is required to take a Penny-Magazine tone,
exclusively--the darlings being, most probably, restless and impatient
all the time, the girls sitting uneasily on their chairs and looking
tired, and the boys suddenly bolting out of the room to get back to
their sports. It is true the children will be less impatient if the
visiter will trouble herself to "tell them stories" all the time; but it
is rude to ask her to do so.

When directing a letter to "a woman of letters," it is not considered
polite to insert the word "Authoress" after her name. And yet we have
seen this done by persons who ought to know better. If you are
unacquainted with the number and street of her residence, direct to the
care of her publisher; whose place you may always find, by referring to
the title-page of one of her last works, and by seeing his
advertisements in the newspapers. The booksellers always know where
their authors are to be found. So do the printers--for their boys convey
the proof-sheets.

Observe that the term "learned lady" is not correctly applied to a
female, unless she has successfully cultivated what is understood to be
the learning of colleges--for instance, the dead languages, &c.
Unfortunately, the term is now seldom used but in derision, and to
denote a woman whose studies have been entirely of the masculine order.
You may speak of a well-informed, well-read, talented, intellectual,
accomplished lady; but call her not _learned_, unless she is well-versed
in the Greek and Latin classics, and able to discuss them from their
original language. Even then, spare her the appellation of _learned_, if
gentlemen are present. In the dark ages, when not every lady could read
and write, the few that _were_ entitled to the "benefit of clergy,"
frequently "drank deep in tasting the Pierian spring," and proceeded to
study the learned languages with great success; for instance, Lady Jane
Grey and Queen Elizabeth.

In desiring the autograph of a literary lady, do not expect her to write
in your album "a piece of poetry." Be satisfied with her signature only.
There is a spice of meanness in requesting from her, as a gift, any
portion of her stock in trade. As well might you ask Mr. Stewart, or Mr.
Levy, to present you with an embroidered collar, or a pair of gloves.
For the same reason, never request an artist to "draw something" in your
album. It is only amateur poets, and amateur artists, that can afford to
write and draw in albums. Those who make a living by their profession,
have no time to spare for gratuitous performances; and it is as wrong to
ask them, as it is to invite public singers to "favour the company with
a song" at private parties, where they are invited as guests. It is,
however, not unusual for professional musicians to kindly and politely
gratify the company by inviting themselves to sing; saying, "Perhaps you
would like to hear my last song." And sometimes, if quite "in the vein,"
a real poet, when modestly asked for merely his signature, will
voluntarily add a few lines of verse. But do not expect it.

There are pretty little books of fine paper, handsomely bound, that are
used for the purpose of containing signature autographs; one on each
page. A lady owning such a book, can send it to any distinguished
person of whose hand-writing she wishes to possess a specimen.

When the name at the bottom of a letter is shown to you as an autograph,
it is rude to take the letter into your own hand, and read the whole, or
even to glance your eye over it. It is not intended that you shall see
any thing but the signature.

We will now address a few words to beginners in the art of writing, with
reference to their intercourse with women of well-established literary
reputation. If these ladies of decided standing in the republic of
letters have sufficient leisure, they will generally be very kind in
assisting with their counsel a young aspirant, who shows any evidence of
talent for the profession. Unluckily, too many novices in the art,
mistake a mere desire to get into print, for that rarest of
gifts--genius. And without genius, there is no possibility of gaining by
the pen, either fame, or fortune.

Long manuscripts are frequently sent for the revisal "at leisure" of a
person who has little or no leisure. Yet in the intervals of toiling for
herself, she is expected to toil for some one else; probably for a
stranger whom she does not know, in whom she can take no interest, and
who has evidently "no writing in her soul." If, however, the modest
request is kindly complied with, in all probability the corrections will
only give offence, and may perhaps be crossed out before the manuscript
is offered to the publisher, who very likely may reject it for want of
these very corrections. We have known such incidents.

The least talented of the numerous females pretending to authorship, are
generally the most conceited and the most obtrusive. They are frequently
very great annoyances to women "well-up the ladder," who are expected,
in many instances, not only to revise the manuscript, but immediately to
find a purchaser for it--a purchaser of high rank among publishers--one
who will bring it out handsomely, ensure it an immense circulation, pay
promptly, and pay as much as is given to the standard authors. And
besides being desired to "get it published," the reviser of the
manuscript will, perhaps, be requested to correct the proofs; that is,
if the literary novice should chance to know what proof-sheets are.

The work thus arrogantly thrust upon the time and attention of a
deservedly-popular writer may be a book of "sweet poetry," on weak,
worn-out, common-place subjects, done into feeble, halting, ill-rhyming
verses, such as few read, and none remember. Or the aspirant after fame,
may have chosen the easier path of prose, and produced a fiction without
fancy, a novel without novelty, "a thrilling tale" that thrills nobody,
a picture of fashionable life after no fashion that ever existed, or "a
pathetic story of domestic life," neither pathetic nor domestic.

Yet if a practised and successful author ventures to pronounce an
_unfavourable_ verdict on such productions, because the writer desired
her _candid_ opinion, she will probably light up a flame of resentment,
that may never be extinguished, and make an enemy for life; the
objections being imputed to "sheer envy," and to a malignant design of
"extinguishing a rising star."

A sufficient introduction to a publisher is to send him the manuscript,
accompanied by a note requesting his opinion as soon as convenient. If
he approves it, and believes it will be profitable, there is no doubt of
his being willing to print the work. And if he thinks he shall make
nothing by it, it is equally certain that he will decline the offer. It
is too much to expect that he will be so regardless of his own interest
as to publish a book, the sale of which will not remunerate him for the
cost of paper and printing.

Ladies who live in the same house with an authoress, have opportunities
enough of seeing her in the parlour, and at table; therefore they may
dispense with visiting her in her own room. Spare her all interruptions
of applying for the loan of books, paper, pens, ink, &c. Do not expect
that, because she writes, she must necessarily keep a free circulating
library, or a gratuitous stationer's shop. Supply yourself with all such
conveniences from the regular sources. Buy them, and pay for them,
instead of troubling one who has not time to be troubled. Above all,
refrain from the meanness of asking her to lend you any book written by
herself. If she volunteers the loan, then receive it thankfully; and
take care to return it speedily, and in good condition. It is _her_
interest, and the interest of her publishers, that a large number of
copies shall be _sold_; not lent, or given away. Many persons
erroneously suppose that an author has always on hand an unlimited
number of her own books; or that the publisher will kindly give her as
many as she can want for herself and friends. This is by no means the
case. It is usual, when the first edition comes out, for the publisher
to send the author half a dozen copies of the book, or a dozen, if it is
a small one. After that, if she wants any more, she is expected to buy
them of the bookseller. Therefore, she has none to _give away_, except
to members of her own family, or to friends whose circumstances will not
permit them to expend money in books, and who have an ardent love for
reading without the means of gratifying it. We have known ladies,
possessing diamonds and India shawls, and living in splendid houses, ask
the author for the loan of a cookery-book, with the avowed purpose of
"copying out the best receipts."

Apropos to cookery-books:--If you have faithfully followed a receipt,
and the result is not quite satisfactory, there is nothing amiss in your
acquainting the writer with that fact, provided it _is_ a fact. On the
contrary, you may do her a kindness, by enabling her to detect an error
in the directions, and to rectify that error in a future edition.

Women often assert that the receipt was not a good one, and that upon
trial it proved a failure, when, on investigation, you will find that,
from false economy, some of the ingredients were left out; or the
relative proportions diminished in quantity--too much of the cheapest
articles being put in, and not enough of the more costly. Or else, that
sufficient time and pains were not bestowed on the mixing and preparing;
or that the thing was not sufficiently cooked.

By-the-bye, remember that a receipt for cookery, is not to be called a
_recipe_. The word _recipe_ belongs to pharmacy, and is only used with
reference to medical prescriptions. The cook uses _receipts_, the
apothecary _recipes_.

Whatever article you may wish to borrow from an inmate of the same
house, apply first to persons whose time is of comparatively small
importance to them, before you disturb and interrupt a literary lady. Do
not trouble her for the loan of umbrellas, over-shoes, hoods, calashes,
&c., or send to her for small change.

We once lived in a house where coal-fires were scarce, and wood-fires
plenty. Our own fire-arrangement was wood in a Franklin stove, and no
other person in the house was the fortunate owner of a pair of bellows.
Liking always to be comfortable, we had bought a pair for ourselves.

Ten times a day we were disturbed by a knock at the door, from a
coloured girl who came "a-borrowing" this implement to revive the fire
of some other room. She called it by a pleasing variety of
names--running through all the vowels. Sometimes she wanted the
bellow_sas_; sometimes the bellow_ses_; or the bellow_sis_, the
bellow_sos_, or the bellow_sus_. These frequent interruptions, with
others that were similar, became a real grievance. We thought it would
cost us less to present the bellows to the house, and buy another pair
for ourselves. We did so--but very soon the first pair was somehow
missing, and our own was again in requisition.

Since that winter we have burnt anthracite, and therefore have no
bellow_sas_ to lend.


SUGGESTIONS TO INEXPERIENCED AUTHORS.


There is some economy and much convenience in buying your paper by the
ream, (twenty quires,) having first tried a sample. The surface of the
paper should be smooth, and somewhat glossy; particularly if you write
with metallic pens. That which is soft and spongy, though a little lower
in price, wears out the pen so fast that what is saved in paper is lost
in pens; also, there is no possibility of writing on it with ease and
expedition. You will find it best to use paper ruled in lines. If you
write a large hand, take foolscap; if a small hand, use letter-paper
size. But note-paper is too small, when you are writing for the press.

Before you commence your manuscript, take a quire, and prepare each
sheet by splitting it all down the folded side, with a sharp
paper-cutter, thus dividing it into half-sheets. You can do this better
on a flat table than on the slope of a desk. Keep your left hand
pressing down hard on the quire, while you are cutting it with your
right.

The best paper-cutters are those of real ivory. A handle is of no
advantage to them, but rather the contrary. They should be thin, plain,
and perfectly straight, except being rounded off at the two ends. Ivory
paper-knives of this form are generally used by the book-binders, an
evidence that they are convenient and expeditious. Those of bone or horn
are scarcely worth buying, though but half the price; the edges soon
becoming blunt, and therefore useless. Wooden paper-knives are good for
nothing. Paper-knives of mother of pearl, and other ornamental
substances, are of little utility, being rarely sharp enough, (even when
new,) and in a short time becoming quite dull. Also, they break very
easily. Avoid cutting a sheet of paper, or the leaves of a book, with
scissors; it is comparatively a slow and awkward process; and cannot,
even with great care, be effected as smoothly and evenly as with a
cutter of ivory.

Before you split or divide the sheet, press the paper-knife all along
the fold, so as to flatten the crease, and make it cut evenly and
easily. Having split your whole sheets into leaves or half-sheets, take
each half-sheet separately, and fold over an inch or more all along the
left-hand edge; so as to leave a margin or space for sewing the
manuscript when finished. Do this with the paper-knife. Lay a pile of
these half-sheets beside you when you sit down to write, and take them
as you want them.

Write only on one side of the paper. If written on both sides, it will
cause trouble and inconvenience to the printers, by obliging them to
turn over at the end of every page. This rule, however, may be dispensed
with, when a manuscript is so short that it may be comprised in one
sheet, and is to be transmitted by mail. This may be the more easily
managed, by drawing with a pencil or pen a straight perpendicular line
down the middle of each page, so as to divide it into columns. When it
is finished, enclose it in an envelope, direct, and seal it, and put on
a post-office stamp. If the manuscript occupies two or three sheets, put
two or three stamps side by side. There are large envelopes that will
hold foolscap paper, properly folded.

Do not use _blue_ ink; for if any part of your manuscript should chance
to get wet, there is a risk of the blue ink being effaced or obliterated
by the damp, so as to render the writing illegible; and this has
frequently happened.

Let your writing be large enough, and plain enough to be read with ease,
and the compositor will be less likely to make mistakes. Printers,
though accustomed to read all sorts of writing, are sometimes completely
at a loss in deciphering a very bad hand. There is no excuse for a
person in respectable life persisting in writing illegibly, as it is
never too late to improve. You have only to take lessons of a good
instructor, and apply yourself sedulously to acquiring a new hand, and
you will succeed in doing so.

Do not, in writing for the press, affect the crow-quill calligraphy that
is fashionable for album verses and complimentary billets. When your
manuscript is finished, sew the leaves _evenly_ together, with nothing
more than a strong thread; or, if it is very thick, it may be sewed with
a fine twine put into a large needle. A handsome cover, daintily
fastened with a pretty ribbon, is of no account in a printing-office,
where the first thing that is done with a manuscript is to remove the
cover, and cut the leaves loose from the fastening. The printers will
gladly dispense with covers, ribbons, and fairy-like penmanship, in
favour of a plain legible hand, pages regularly numbered, and leaves
written on one side only.

In commencing a manuscript, write the title or caption in large letters,
at some distance from the top of the first page; and if you are not
anonymous, put your name a little below the title. Then begin the
_first_ line of the first paragraph, several inches distant from the
left-hand side, or margin. In this manner commence every paragraph. The
length of the paragraphs may be regulated by the time when you think a
pause longer than that of a period or full stop may be effective; or to
give the reader an opportunity of resting for a minute; or to denote the
commencement of another subject.

In writing a dialogue, begin every separate speech with a capital, and
commence each speech on a new line, and at some distance from the
left-hand margin. Also mark the beginning and end of every speech with
double commas. If the names of the speakers are given at the
_commencement_ of every speech, write those names in _large_ letters,
putting a dot and a dash after them. All these arrangements are the same
in writing as in printing.

If you are, unfortunately, not familiar with the rules of punctuation,
refresh your memory by referring to them in a grammar-book. They must
be strictly observed; otherwise your meaning will be unintelligible.
Always remember that every period or full stop, and every note of
interrogation, or of admiration, must be followed by a capital letter,
beginning the next word. Dashes, particularly in a dialogue, add much to
the effect, if not used too lavishly.

Errors of orthography are rarely committed by any one who presumes to
write for the press. It is scarcely possible for a person who reads much
to spell incorrectly, as the appearance of the printed words becomes
insensibly and indelibly fixed in the mind. Still it may be well to
write with a dictionary on your table, in case you should have any doubt
as to the proper spelling and meaning of a word with which you may not
be very familiar.

Keep also a grammar on your table. Grammatical errors are annoying to
the reader, and disgraceful to the writer, unless it is well known that
she has not had the advantage of an education, even at a common school.
Then she is to be pitied. But it is never too late to study grammar, and
she had best do so before she ventures to write for the public. If she
writes ungrammatically, how must she talk! In a work of fiction it is
shocking to have lords and ladies, or the noble and dignified hero, and
the elegant and refined heroine, conversing in "bad grammar," because
the author knew no better. Yet such books we have seen. There are,
luckily, not many of them. But there should be none.

Every morning, previous to commencing your task, revise carefully all
that you have written on the preceeding day, and correct and alter
whatever you may deem susceptible of improvement. Some authors revise
every page as soon as they have written it. But, unless you are much
pressed for time, it is best to do this next morning, when your
perceptions are fresh and clear. In crossing or blotting out, do it
effectually, so that the original words may not appear through, and
remain still legible. If you find that you have omitted a word, or if
you wish to change one word for another, interline it; inserting the new
word just above the line to which it belongs, and placing this mark /\
below. Lay aside each page as you finish it. Be particular in numbering
every page; and it is best to do this before you begin, placing the
number near the top of the right-hand corner. Let not your lines be too
close, or there will not be space enough for legible interlining.

If the publisher lives in your own town, it will be sufficient to roll
up the manuscript in clean white paper, twisted at each end, and wafered
in the middle. But however short the distance, write on the outside of
the paper the full direction of the publishing office; that, in case of
its being dropped in the street, any person finding it may know exactly
where to take it.

In putting up a large manuscript, in a packet for transmission to a
distant place, use strong nankeen paper for the cover, and secure it
with wafers, or paste, if it is to go a voyage in a steamer, as a wax
seal may be melted by the heat of the fire. If it will reach its
destination in a few hours, you may seal it with wax, having tied red
tape about. Do not use twine, as that may cut the paper. Newspapers are
generally put up in a brownish paper cover, pasted at the side and
bottom, with one end left open.

Postage is now so cheap, that manuscripts had best always be transmitted
by mail; putting a sufficient number of stamps on the outside, all close
to each other.

Few women can write well enough for publication, without going twice
over the subject; first in what is called the rough copy, and then
making a fair copy with all the original errors corrected, and all
proper alterations inserted. If you have time, make _two_ fair copies;
one for the printer, and one to keep for yourself, in case the other
should be accidentally destroyed or lost--retaining it till after the
work is actually in print. Much postage is wasted, and much annoyance is
given to the editors of periodicals, by applications for the restoration
of unpublished verses, and other "Rejected Addresses," consisting,
perhaps, of a sheet of poetry, or a few pages of prose, of which it
would have been very easy to have made another copy for the author's
keeping.

In writing articles for Annuals, let it be remembered that the printing
of these books is always completed some months before they are published
or announced for sale. Therefore, all contributions should be sent to
the publisher before February, or March at farthest. For a magazine,
they should be transmitted at least two months in advance. For a weekly
paper, two weeks ahead.

Those who write for periodicals should remember that it is the custom
to address all letters on compensations, copies of work, &c. to the
publisher; and not to the editor, who seldom has any concern in the
pecuniary affairs, his business being solely to receive, and read the
manuscripts, to accept or reject them, and to arrange them for the
press. It is not usual for the compensation to be paid till after the
book is published. Some publishers send to every contributor one copy of
the work. Others do not present a copy when the article is very
short--for instance, a few stanzas of verse. Prose obtains a higher
price than poetry, of which there is always a superabundance in the
market. Much poetry is published without any pay at all; the writers
being contented with seeing their effusions in print. No _good_ author
has any occasion to write gratuitously. A "merely passable" or "just
tolerable" writer of poetry or fiction, should give up the inventive
line, and try something else--something for which genius is not
indispensable; and from which, by patience and industry, a sort of
living may be wrought out.

In composing poetry, a common, but unpardonable fault is that of
introducing a lame or halting line--a line with one syllable too many,
or too few. And if the author does not understand that it is an
intolerable blemish, and sends it uncorrected to the press, she is
unworthy of being called a poetess. We are inclined to believe that no
person devoid of an ear for music, can write poetry deserving of the
name. The ideas may be good, but the lines will have no melody, and will
move harshly and ruggedly, very much like rough prose.

Some writers seem to think that blank verse is nothing but prose with a
capital at the beginning of each line; never having learnt or remembered
that though the lines do not rhyme, they must all comprise ten
syllables, (syllables, not words,) otherwise the effect when read, will,
to even a tolerable ear, be absolutely painful. We saw a play, (the
first attempt of a since distinguished dramatist,) the dialogue of which
was unintelligible to the audience, and nearly impracticable to the
actors, who found it absolutely beyond their skill to enunciate; or
rather beneath it. We afterward heard the manager of the Chestnut-street
Theatre explain, that the difficulty, both with the speakers and the
hearers, was the execrable blank verse in which the play was written;
some of the lines containing but seven or eight syllables, (instead of
ten,) and some twelve or fourteen. A very few English authors write
irregular blank verse; but we are sorry to say that a great many
Americans do not seem to understand the process, simple as it is, of
confining themselves to ten syllables only,--neither more nor less. Can
they have read Shakspeare?

There is no blank verse in French poetry. That language seems incapable
of it.

If you are writing for a periodical, and are desirous of ascertaining
before-hand how many pages your manuscript will make when printed, take,
at random, any printed page of the work, and copy it in your usual hand,
and on a sheet of the same paper you intend using throughout. You will
thus, by comparison, be able to judge with tolerable accuracy, how much
of your writing will make a page when printed.

Keep a memorandum-book for the express purpose of setting down whatever
relates to your literary affairs. Insert the day when you commenced a
manuscript, the day when you finished it, and the day on which it went
to the publisher. Also, the whole number of its pages. When you see it
in print, put down the number of its printed pages. In this book, set
down, _immediately on receiving them_, whatever sums are paid to you for
your writings.

If you are a writer of fiction, have a large book for memorandums, of
any amusing or remarkable things you may chance to hear, and which you
may turn to account afterward. If you write truth only, keep a book for
the reception of useful or interesting facts. A written book of names,
alphabetically arranged, (surnames and Christian names,) will be of
great advantage in selecting appellations for your characters. Do not
give elegant names to your common people; or to your patrician
characters names that are coarse and vulgar. A fault in Dickens is that
nearly all his names are rugged, uncouth, and ill-sounding, and seldom
characteristic. Why should a very excellent and generous brother and
sister be called Tom Pinch and Ruth Pinch. What did they pinch?

There is a proof-reader in every printing-office, but after he has done,
the proofs are generally sent to the author for farther revisal.

In correcting proof-sheets, first see that they are quite dry. Draw your
pen through any word you desire to change, and then write the new word
on the margin, placing it even with the line of the rejected word. When
you alter the punctuation, converting a comma into a semicolon, or a
period into a note of admiration, make a slight mark on the margin of
that line, that the printer may not overlook it. If you have occasion to
change a whole sentence, cross it out, and put the new sentence on the
margin at the bottom of the page.

If the printer's boy can wait, you had best correct the proofs while he
stays.



CHILDREN.


Miss Edgworth says that the education of a child begins at three months
old. It is true that both bad and good habits may seem to commence at
this early age; but we do not believe that in so slight a soil they take
a very deep root, or that what is called a cross baby is sure to grow up
an ill-tempered adult. Infants, when they are not really sick,
frequently cry from some incidental annoyance, and not from a fretful
disposition. If they feel comfortably they will usually be good-humoured
and pleasant. Much of their comfort is sacrificed to the vanity of the
mother in dressing them fashionably and expensively. We knew a baby that
was very good in the morning, but very cross in the afternoon, or when
dressed for show. And no wonder, for in her show-costume she was
tortured with necklace, sleeve-loops, and bracelets of fine branchy, or
rather briary coral, scratching and irritating her delicate skin, and
leaving the print in red marks. On our representing this to the mother
as the probable cause of the baby's fretfulness, the thorny ornaments
were left off, and the child became amiable. Gold chains are also very
irritating to the neck and arms of an infant. Coral beads of a smooth
round form, strung evenly on a simple thread of silk, without any
intermingling of gold chain, are, perhaps, the most comfortable
necklaces for children, and are also very becoming; but as they are not
expensive, they are of course not fashionable.

Fortunately, the days of worked caps are over. Young ladies are no
longer expected to cover pieces of cambric with elaborate cotton
embroidery for the babies of their married friends, and the tender heads
of the babies are no longer chafed with rough needle-work rubbing
incessantly upon them, or heated with a silk lining to the cambric
already thickened all over with close, heavy patterns. We wish also that
mothers, generally, were less proud of seeing their babies with
"luxuriant heads of hair," which if it has no natural tendency to curl,
disfigures the child and gives it a wild, ungenteel look. If it does
curl, it still heats the head and neck, and is said to draw away much
strength from the system. The most healthy infants we have seen, had
very little hair, or it was judiciously kept closely cut. To curl
children's hair in papers is barbarous. They pay dearly for the glory of
appearing in ringlets during the day, if they are made to pass their
nights lying upon a mass of hard, rough bobs, about as pleasant as if
they had their heads in a bag of hickory-nuts. But then the mother has
the gratification of hearing their curls admired!

Among other sufferings inflicted on babies is that of sending them out
in bleak winter days with brimless hats, that, so far from screening
their faces from the cold wind, do not even afford the slightest shade
to their eyes, which are winking and watering all the time from the
glare of the sun and snow. We have seen false curls pinned to these
babies' hats, and dangling in their eyes.

Another detestable practice is that of making the waists of children's
frocks ridiculously long and painfully tight; particularly over the
chest and body, which are thus pressed flat, to the utter ruin of the
figure, and the risk of producing incurable diseases--such as
consumption of the lungs, and projection of the spine; to say nothing of
the various complaints connected with the stomach, which is thus
squeezed into half its natural compass. Also, the sleeve-holes are so
small and tight as to push up the shoulders. Then the hips are pressed
downward far below their proper place, and the legs are consequently in
danger of becoming short and bandy. Is it possible this vile fashion can
continue much longer?--and are "the rising generation" really to grow up
with high shoulders, round backs, flat chests, bodies that seem longer
than their legs, and hips almost where their knees ought to be?

Also, these limbs must suffer from cold in winter with no other covering
than cotton stockings, the skirts of the dress scarcely reaching to the
knees--the little boys disfigured with the ugliest of all garments,
short knee-breeches.

Add to all the rest of these abominations, tight boots with peaked toes,
and can we wonder that children, even beyond the period of infancy,
should, at times, be cross, irritable, and unamiable. How can they be
otherwise, when they seldom feel comfortably? Then, if the parents can
afford it, (or whether or not,) the unhappy children are bedizened with
all manner of expensive finery, and interdicted from romping, lest they
should injure it. But, what matter if the children suffer--the mother's
vanity _must_ be gratified, and she _must_ have the delight of seeing
that her boys and girls are as fashionably dressed as the little
Thomsons and Wilsons and Jacksons.

We look back with regret to the days when little girls, as well as boys,
wore their hair closely cropped; convenient and cool, and showing to
advantage the form of the head, till they were twelve or thirteen--and
they wore only washable dresses, descending far below the knees, and
with pantalets down to their ankles. In summer their frocks had short
wide sleeves, and were _not_ close up to the throat. The bodies were of
a natural length, the outside gathered full upon a moderately tight
lining. If there is no lining to a full frock-body it will puff out at
the back and front, and give the waist a look of deformity before and
behind. Then the little girls went out in close cottage-bonnets of straw
in summer, and beaver in winter--shading and screening their faces--and
were kept warm when out of doors with long wide cloaks or coats of cloth
or merino, instead of the fantastic short things now worn, with open
sleeves and open fronts. Then, when at home, how innocent and childlike
they looked in their long-sleeved convenient bib-aprons!--so much better
than the short silk ones now worn, trimmed and bordered and ribboned,
and rendered so fine that the children are expected to be as careful of
injuring their showy aprons as of soiling their showy frocks.

Formerly, children learned to play various amusing games, such as "Hot
buttered beans," "Blind-man's bluff," &c. Now their play is chiefly
running and squealing, and chasing each other about, without any
definite object, except that of making a noise. Then, at a juvenile
party, the amusement was chiefly in the varieties of these entertaining
games. Now it is dancing--for as many as can find places to dance--and
nothing at all for those who cannot, but to grow tired and sleepy. In
former times, children's parties commenced at two o'clock in the
afternoon in winter, and at four in summer. They played till they were
summoned to a large and well-supplied tea-table, and were sent for to
come home by eight o'clock, being then quite tired enough to go to bed
and sleep soundly, and waken with pleasant recollections of yesterday.
If the party was very large, the elder children sat round the room, and
tea, &c. was handed to them, while the little ones were accommodated at
a table where the hostess presided. The children of that time really
enjoyed these parties, and so would those of the present time, if they
could have such. The juvenile-party dress was then but a simple white
muslin frock with a ribbon sash. We have since seen little girls at a
summer party steadfastly refuse strawberries and cream, in obedience to
the interdiction of their mothers; who had enjoined them to do so, lest
they should stain or otherwise injure their elegant silk dresses.

Fortunately, it is no longer fashionable for mothers to take their
children with them on morning visits. On these occasions small children
rarely behave well. They soon grow tired, and restless, and begin
teazing to go somewhere else. Their presence is (or ought to be) a
restraint on conversation, as much may be said during a visit that is
not well for them to hear. They comprehend certain things far more
easily than is supposed. Great mischief has ensued from allowing
children to sit and listen; and there is no dependence on their
discretion or secrecy.

It is not well to put a small child "through its facings," by trying to
make it exhibit any of its little feats before strangers. They are
generally very reluctant to make this exhibition. Sometimes they are
bashful, sometimes perverse; but if the mother persists in her attempt
to show them off, it will probably prove a complete failure, and end in
a cry, or that outbreak usually called a tantrum. By-the-bye, there is
no better way of stopping a tantrum than quietly to divert the child's
attention to something else.

Beware of trusting an infant, too confidingly, to an European nurse; and
when she carries out the baby, it would be well if an older sister or
the mother herself could go along. Instead of carrying it to one of the
public squares, or to some other place where there is air and shade, she
may take it into dirty alleys, on a visit to some of her own relations,
perhaps newly arrived in an emigrant ship, with the filth and diseases
of a steerage passage still about them. This we know to have been done,
and the child has in consequence taken a disgusting disease. Or,
believing it a meritorious act, an Irish nurse may secretly carry the
infant to a priest, and have it baptized in the Catholic church, herself
standing godmother. Of this there have been numerous instances. Young
children frequently acquire, from being too much with ignorant and
vulgar nurses, bad habits of talking that are exceedingly difficult to
eradicate--so lasting are early impressions. We have heard an Irish
brogue from infantine lips; and the letter H sadly misused by the
American nursling of a low Englishwoman. Above all, do not permit your
own children to play with the children of their nurse. No good ever
accrues from it.

Children should not be brought to table till they are able to feed
themselves, first with a spoon, and next with a fork. And not then,
unless they can be depended on to keep quiet, and not talk. The
chattering of children all dinner-time is a great annoyance to grown
people. The shrill voice of a child can be distinguished annoyingly amid
those of a whole company. They should be made to understand that if they
talk at table, they are to be immediately taken away to finish their
dinner in the nursery. On no consideration should they be admitted to
table when there is a dinner-party. The foolish custom of having all the
children dressed for the purpose, and brought in with the dessert, is
now obsolete. It never was very prevalent, except in England.

We have seen children so well and so early trained that they could be
trusted to come to table every day without the least fear of their
misbehaving by talking or otherwise. They sat quietly, asked for
nothing, took contentedly whatever was put on their plates, made no
attempt at helping themselves, and neither greased nor slopped the
table-cloth; and when done, wiped their mouths and hands on their
napkins, before they quitted their chairs, which they did at a sign from
their mother; going out without noise, and neither leaving the door open
nor slamming it hard. It is very easy to accustom children to these
observances. Also, they may be taught very early, how to behave to
visiters. For instance, not to pass between them and the fire, not to
hang on the back of a lady's chair; or to squeeze close to her; or to
get on her lap; or to finger her dress; or to search her reticule, or
her pocket; or to ask a stranger for pennies or sixpences; or to tell
her that she is not pretty; or to enquire "why she wears such an ugly
bonnet?"

We have known a fine little boy, not three years old, who, on the
entrance of a friend of his mother's, would haul up a chair for her, and
invite her to a seat near the fire, place a footstool at her feet, ask
her to let him take her bonnet, and invite her to stay to dinner, to
stay all day, and to "stay for ever," adding, "I try to be polite."

There are very little girls who, if their mother is from home, can do
the honours in her place; seat the visiter on the sofa, and press her to
stay till their mother comes in; and if the lady declines doing so,
they will ask her at least to stay awhile, and rest herself, and have a
glass of cool water; and while she stays, they will do their best to
entertain her. Such children always grow up with polished manners, if
not removed from the influence that made them so in early life.

Children should be early taught not to repeat the conversation of grown
persons, and never to tell the servants any thing they have heard in the
parlour. When they come home from school, they ought not to be
encouraged in telling school-tales. If they dine out, never question
them concerning what they had for dinner. Forbid their relating any
circumstances concerning the domestic economy of the house at which they
have been entertained.

If a child purloins cakes or sweetmeats, punish him by giving him none
the next time they are on table.

At four years of age, a beginning should be made in teaching them to
read, by hearing them the alphabet every day till they have learned it
perfectly; and afterwards the first spelling-tables. With a quarter of
an hour's daily instruction, a child of common capacity will, in six
months, be able to spell in two or three syllables, and to read short
easy stories with the syllables divided. At the end of the year, if her
lessons are regular, and not so long as to tire her, she will, in all
probability, take pleasure in reading to herself, when her lessons are
over. Were they taught _out of story-books only_, there are few children
that at the age of six years would find any difficulty in reading
fluently. If _very_ intelligent, they often can read well at five. When
they can once read, encourage them in the love of books; but do not set
them at any other branch of education till they are eight. Then, their
hands being strong enough to guide the pen firmly, they may commence
writing copies. They should be supplied with slates and pencils at three
years old. If they have any dormant talent for drawing, this will call
it out. Little girls may begin to sew at four or five, but only as an
amusement, not as a task. The best and most satisfactory dolls for young
children are those of linen or rag, made very substantially. Much money
is wasted in toys that afford them no amusement whatever; and toys that,
being merely to look at, they grow tired of immediately, and delight in
breaking to pieces.

Never give an infant a book to play with. He will most assuredly tear
it; that being the only amusement it can afford him. It is possible at a
very early age to teach a tractable female child such a respect for
books that she will never attempt to injure them. When they are old
enough to take pleasure in looking at the pictures, it is easy to
accustom them to be always satisfied with the books being shown to them
in the hands of grown persons. Do not buy those books that have absurd
and revolting prints of people with gigantic heads and diminutive
bodies. Children always dislike them, and so they ought.

Rejoice when a little girl shows a fondness for reading, and by all
means encourage it. Keep her well supplied with good and entertaining
books, and you will have little trouble with her. Do not needlessly
interrupt, and call her off--but let her read in peace. It will do her
more good than any thing else, and lay the foundation of an intelligent
mind. A taste for reading, if not formed in early childhood, may perhaps
never come at all. And then what a solace it is in bodily illness! How
patiently a reading child, whose mind is stored with "pleasant
memories," can bear pain, and submit to the confinement of a sick-bed.
We have known more than one instance of the illness of a reading child
taking a turn for the better, from the time she was indulged with an
amusing and interesting book.

There is no place in which children appear to greater disadvantage or
are less ungovernable than at hotels or boarding-houses. We are always
sorry when the circumstances of parents oblige them permanently to live
thus in public, with their young families, who are consequently brought
up in a manner which cannot but have an unfavourable effect in forming
the characters of the future men and women. By way of variety, and that
they may not always be confined up-stairs, the children are encouraged,
or at least permitted by their mothers, to spend much of their time in
the drawing-room, regardless of the annoyance which their noise and
romping never fails to inflict upon the legitimate occupants of that
apartment. The parents, loving their children too much to be incommoded
themselves by any thing that their offspring can say or do, seem not
aware that they can possibly interrupt or trouble the rest of the
company. Or else, conscious of their own inability to control them,
they are afraid to check the children lest they should turn restive,
rebel, or break out into a tantrum. "Any thing for the sake of peace,"
is a very foolish maxim where juveniles are concerned. By being firm
once or twice, and dismissing them from the room when they deserve it,
you may have peace ever after. The noisiest and most inconvenient time
to have children in a public parlour is in the interval between their
tea and their bed-time. Some children have no bed-time. And when they
are tired of scampering and shouting, they lie about sleeping on the
sofas, and cry if they are finally wakened, to go up with their mother
when she retires for the night.

Still worse is the practice that prevails in some hotels and
boarding-houses, of the mothers sending the nurse-maids with the babies,
to sit in the drawing-room among the ladies; who are thus liable to have
a vulgar and obtrusive servant-girl, most probably "from the old
country," boldly taking her seat in the midst of them, or conspicuously
occupying one of the front-windows; either keeping up a perpetual
undercurrent of fulsome, foolish talk to the baby, or listening eagerly
to the conversation around her, and, perhaps, repeating it invidiously
as soon as she gets an opportunity. If one lady sends her nurse-maid to
sit in the drawing-room with the child, all the other mothers of babies
immediately follow suit, and the drawing-room becomes a mere nursery.

Every hotel should have a commodious and airy parlour set apart entirely
for the children and nurses. The proprietors could easily afford to
keep one good room for that purpose, if they would expend a little less
on the finery of the parlours, &c. We have heard of an embroidered
piano-cover, in a great hotel, costing fourteen hundred dollars, and the
children pulling it down and dragging it about the floor. With a
piano-cover of the usual cost, and other things less ostentatious, a
children's parlour might well have been afforded in this very
establishment.

At a hotel, if the children come to the ladies' table, they are always
in danger of eating food that is highly improper for them, and they very
soon learn to help themselves to much more than they want, and to eat
voraciously, in their desire to "have something of every thing." There
is always a table purposely for those children whose parents pay
half-price for them; and at which the housekeeper presides. However good
this table may be, and though the pies and puddings may be excellent,
the mothers are frequently dissatisfied with the absence of ice-cream,
blanc-mange, charlotte-russe, &c., though certainly, were they in houses
of their own, they would not have such things every day. Therefore,
though it is "not in the bond," the mothers carry away from the table
saucers of these delicacies, and the children learn to expect a daily
supply of them from the ladies' dining-room. This, we must say, is a
mean practice. We have, however, known some mothers, who, really being
"honourable women," sent every day to a confectioner's to _buy_
ice-cream for their children.

There is danger at a hotel of little boys loitering about the bar or
office, encouraged by unthinking young men, who give them "tastes of
drink," and even amuse themselves by teaching them to smoke segars.

And no children, either boys or girls, can live at a public house
without hearing and seeing much that it is best they should not know.
The English travellers deprecate the American practice of bringing up
young people in hotels or boarding-houses. And they are right.

When a lady, having with her a young child, and no nurse-maid, stops for
a day at a hotel, she can avoid the inconvenience of taking the child
with her to table, and incommoding herself and all who sit near her. She
has only to entrust the little traveller to a chambermaid up-stairs;
directing the girl how to take care of it, and promising her a gratuity
for her trouble. She will rarely have cause to regret such an
arrangement. It will spare the annoyance and mortification of having the
child make a noise at table, and perhaps compelling the mother to go
away with it.



DECORUM IN CHURCH.


We wish it were less customary to go to church in gay and costly
habiliments, converting its sacred precincts into a place for the
display of finery, and of rivalry to your equally bedizened neighbours.
In many Catholic countries,[17] a peculiar costume is universally
adopted for visiting a place of worship--a very plain gown of entire
black, with a long, black cloak, and a black hood finished with a veil
that shades the face. This dress is kept for the purpose of wearing at
church. We highly approve the custom, and wish that something similar
could be introduced into the United States--particularly on the solemn
occasions of taking the communion, or being confirmed as a Christian
member. We have known young ladies to have elegant dresses made on
purpose, and to get their hair dressed by a barber when preparing for
confirmation.

In a Sacred Melody of Moore's, St. Jerome tells us--

    "Yet worldly is that heart at best,
      Which beats beneath a broider'd veil;
    And she who comes in glittering vest
      To mourn her frailty--still is frail."

Endeavour always to be in your pew before the service commences, and do
not hurry out of it, hastily, the moment the benediction is finished; or
begin visibly to prepare for departure as soon as it commences. Stay
quietly till the mass of the crowd has gone.

If you go into a strange church, or rather into a church where you are a
stranger, wait in the vestibule till you see the sexton; and then
request him to show you to a vacant seat, or rather to one which he
believes will be that day unoccupied--for instance, if the family owning
it is out of town. This is far better than to wander about the aisles
alone, or to intrude yourself into a pew where you may cause
inconvenience to its owners. If you see that a pew is full, you know, of
course, that you cannot obtain a seat in it without dislodging somebody.

Yet we have seen many a lady, on entering a church in which she was a
stranger, walk boldly up the middle aisle to one of the best pews near
the pulpit, and pertinaciously stand there, looking steadfastly at its
rightful occupants, till one of them quitted his own seat, and gave it
up to her, seeking for himself another place wherever he could find one.
Those who go to strange churches should be contented with seats near the
door; or at the lower end of the side-aisles; or up in the gallery.

If a family invites you to go to church with them, or to come thither,
and have a seat in their pew, do not take the liberty of asking a friend
of your own to accompany you; and above all, do not bring a child with
you.

Should you (having a pew of your own) ask another lady to go with you,
call for her in due time; and she ought to be quite ready. Place her in
a corner-seat, (it being the most comfortable,) and see that she is
accommodated with a foot-stool; and be assiduous in finding the places
for her in the prayer-book, or hymn-book.

In American churches there is much civility to strangers. We have often
seen, when a person of respectable appearance was in quest of a seat,
the doors of half a dozen pews kindly opened to admit him, and, as soon
as he entered, a prayer-book offered to him open at the proper place.

No good can result from taking children to church when they are too
young to read, or to understand. They are always eager to go, because
they like to go everywhere; but when once seated in the pew, they soon
become tired and restless; and frequently there is no way to keep them
quiet, but to let them go to sleep in the lap of the mother or elder
sister. And then they are apt to cry whenever they waken. If there are
two little boys, they are prone to get to playing, or what is far worse,
quarrelling. And then if they make a noise, some elder member of the
family is subjected to the mortification of conveying them out of
church--perhaps by desire of the minister audibly expressed from the
pulpit. We know clergymen who do not permit their children to be taken
to church till they can read--convinced that if their first
recollections of a place of worship are rather painful than pleasant,
they are the less likely to grow up with a due regard for
religion--that is, for religion of the heart--the spirit, and not merely
the letter.

We are sorry to see young ladies, on their way to church, laughing and
talking loudly, and flirting with the beaux that are gallanting them
thither. It is too probable that these beaux will occupy a large share
of their thoughts during the hours of worship. Nay, there are some so
irreverent, and so regardless of the sanctity of the place, as to
indulge in frequent whispers to those near them, or to their friends in
the adjoining pews.

A lady of high fashion and fortune, formerly a resident of Philadelphia,
was noted for the scandalous lightness and levity of her behaviour in
church--laughing and talking, in more than whispers, nearly all the
time, to the idle young men whom she always brought with her, and who,
to do them justice, sometimes seemed rather ashamed of her conduct. Her
pew was directly in front of the pulpit. One Sunday morning, Bishop
White gave her a severe and merited rebuke, by stopping in his sermon,
fixing his eyes sadly upon her, and bowing to her, as an intimation that
till she had ceased he could not go on. We are sorry to add that the
reproof had no other effect than to excite her anger, and caused her
immediately to go out of church, highly exasperated. That lady went to
live in Europe, and has not yet become a good woman, but greatly the
contrary.

"The Lord is in his holy temple; let all the earth keep silence before
him," was the solemn and impressive inscription over the altar of St.
Augustine's church in Philadelphia.

In visiting a church of a different denomination from your own, comply,
as far as you can, with all the ceremonies observed by the congregation,
particularly if you are in a foreign country. Even if some of these
observances are not the least in conformity with your own opinions and
feelings, remember that you are there as a guest, and have no right to
offend or give displeasure to your hosts by evincing a marked
disapprobation of their mode of worship. If you find it very irksome to
refrain, (which it should not be,) you need not go a second time. Every
religious sect believes its own faith to be the best; but God only knows
which really is. Christ has said, "By their fruits ye shall know them."

The author is a Protestant.





EVENING PARTIES.


Having made out a list of the persons you intend to invite, proceed to
write the notes; or have them written in a neat, handsome hand, by an
experienced calligrapher. Fashion, in its various changes, sometimes
decrees that these notes, and their envelopes, shall be perfectly plain,
(though always of the finest paper,) and that the wax seals shall of
course be very small. At other times, the mode is to write on embossed
note paper, with bordered envelopes, secured by fancy wafers,
transparent, medallion, gold or silver. If the seals are gold or silver,
the edges or borders of the paper should be also gilt or silvered.
Sometimes, for a very large or splendid party, the notes are engraved
and printed on cards. Consult the Directory, to obtain the _exact_
address of those to whom you send them.

These invitations may be transmitted by one of the City post offices;
first putting a stamp on each. Let the stamps be such as will leave
nothing additional to be paid by the receiver. If they go through the
United States Post-Office, the carrier will require another cent for
each, beside the stamp. In Philadelphia, Blood's Dispatch Post may be
trusted, as to punctuality, (if faithfully put into the letter-box at
the proper time;) and there is no cost but that of the penny stamp which
you put on yourself.

Another way is to send round the notes by a reliable servant-man of your
own; or to engage, for this purpose, one of the public waiters that are
hired to attend at parties. The notes are usually sent either eight,
seven, or six days before the party--if it is to be very large, ten days
or two weeks. In the notes, always specify not only the day of the week,
but also the day of the month, when the party is to take place. It is
very customary now to designate the hour of assembling, and then the
company are expected to be punctual to that time. People, _really
genteel_, do not go ridiculously late. When a ball is intended, let the
word "Dancing" be introduced in small letters, at the lower left-hand
corner of the note.

For a bridal party, subsequent to a wedding, the words now used are
thus--

    MR. AND MRS. S. M. MORLAND,
          At Home, on Thursday evening, Sept. 22, 1853.

Their residence must be given beneath, in a corner, and in smaller
letters.

Oblong slices of plumb-cake, iced all over, are now sent round in very
pretty white card-board boxes, exactly fitting each slice, covered on
the inside with lace-paper, and an engraved card of the bride and groom
laid on the top of the cake. These boxes (to be had at the fancy
stationers,) are of various prices; some of them are very elegant and
costly.

At wedding-parties, it is usual for the bride and bridesmaids to appear
in exactly the same dresses they wore at the marriage; all of them
ranged in their respective stations before the company begin to arrive.

When the marriage-guests are not too numerous, it is customary to have
all the company shown into the largest parlour, when they first arrive;
the folding-doors being closed between. Meanwhile, the bride and groom,
bridesmaids and groomsmen, with the heads of the family, arrange
themselves in a line or a semi-circle; the most important personages in
the centre, with the clergyman in front of them. When all is ready, the
doors are thrown open, the guests advance, and the ceremony begins. When
it is over, and the bride is receiving the compliments of her friends,
we hope the silliest woman present will not go up and ask her the
foolish question, "If she does not feel already like an old married
woman?"

A crowd at a wedding is now obsolete. We once heard of a marriage in a
great family, where the company was so numerous that all the doors were
blocked up, and quite inaccessible; and the bride could only make her
entrance by being taken round outside, and lifted through a back
window--the groom jumping in after her.

Dancing at weddings is old-fashioned. A band of music playing in the
hall is of no use, as on such occasions no one listens to it, and some
complain of the noise. We think a marriage in church is not as fine a
spectacle as may be imagined. The effect is lost in the size of the
building, and broken up by the intervention of the aisles and pews; the
wedding guests seated in the latter, and the former occupied by people
out of the street, coming in to see the show. And this they will do, if
not forcibly excluded; particularly idle boys, and nurse-maids with
children, all trying to get as near the altar as possible.

If the bride and groom are to set out on a journey immediately after the
ceremony, it is best for her to be married in a handsome
travelling-dress--new for the occasion, of course. This is often done
now. She can reserve the usual wedding costume for her first party after
returning home.

In preparing for a party, it is well (especially if you have had but
little experience yourself,) to send for one of the _best_ public
waiters, and consult with him on the newest style of "doing these
things." A respectable coloured man will be found the most efficient for
this purpose. He can also give you an idea of the probable expense. We
do not, of course, allude to magnificent entertainments, such as are
celebrated in the newspapers, and become a nine days' wonder; and are
cited as costing, not hundreds, but thousands of dollars.

In case the required waiter should be pre-engaged, it is well to send
for, and consult him, a week or two before your party.

We knew a lady who, some years ago, sent for Carroll, (a very excellent
mulatto man, well known in Philadelphia,) to officiate at a projected
party. Carroll, in very polite terms, expressed that he was engaged for
that identical evening to attend at a ball. "Then," said the lady, "you
must try to furnish me with some one else, in your place. Where is
Bogle?" "I know Bogle can't come," answered Carroll; "he is bespoke that
night for a wedding." "Shepherd, then?" said the lady; "see if you
cannot send me Shepherd." "As to Shepherd," replied Carroll, "he is sick
in his bed, and like to keep so." "Where is Solomon King, then?" pursued
the lady; "Solomon King will do very well." "Indeed, ma'am," answered
Carroll, "I don't think Solomon King will suit you now, anyhow; he's
taken very much to drink, and besides he's dead!"

Apropos to the talk of coloured people.--We were told by a southern
lady, that one of her girls being dressed for an entertainment given by
a neighbour to the servants, came to her, and said: "Mistress, Becky has
come for me to go with her; and she says _her_ mistress has gave her two
grand words to say at the party.--Now, I want you to give _me_ two words
that shall beat Becky's; for I know you are a heap smarter than _her_
mistress."

"Tell me the words given by Becky's mistress," said my informant.

"Yes, ma'am.--One is _Desdemona_, and one is _Cataplasm_!"

No doubt, Becky, in some way, contrived to say them both.

In engaging your presiding genius, it is well to desire him to come on
the morning of the party; he will be found of great advantage in
assisting with the final preparations. He will attend to the silver, and
china, and glass; and see that the lamps are all in order, and that the
fires, coal-grates, furnaces, &c., are in proper trim for evening. He
will bring with him (at whatever hour you indicate,) his "young men," as
he calls them; (if coloured youths, they are too genteel to answer to
the name of boys;) and these are his apprentices that he has in training
for the profession.

One of these men should be stationed in the vestibule, or just within
the front door. On that evening, (if not at other times,) let this door
be furnished with a lamp, placed on a shelf or bracket in the fan-light,
to illumine the steps, and shine down upon the pavement, where the
ladies cross it on alighting from the carriages. If the evening proves
rainy, let another man attend with an umbrella, to assist in sheltering
them on their way into the house. The ladies should all wear over-shoes,
to guard their thin slippers from the damp, in their transit from the
coach to the vestibule.

At the top, or on the landing-place, of the first stair-case, let
another man be posted, to show the female guests to their dressing-room;
while still another waiter stays near the gentlemen's room till the
company have done arriving.

In the apartment prepared as a fixing-room for the ladies two or more
women should be all the evening in attendance; both rooms being well
warmed, well lighted, and furnished with all that may be requisite for
giving the last touches to head, feet, and figure, previous to entering
the drawing-room. When ready to go down, the ladies meet their gentlemen
in the passage between the respective dressing-rooms; the beaux being
there already, waiting for the belles, who must not detain them
long--men being very impatient on these, and all other occasions.

If any lady is without an escort, and has no acquaintances at hand to
take her under their wing, she should send for the master of the house
to meet her near the door, and give her his arm into the drawing-room.
He will then lead her to the hostess, and to a seat. Let her then bow,
as a sign that she releases him from farther attendance, and leaves him
at liberty to divide his civilities among his other guests.

In the ladies' room, (beside two toilet glasses with their branches
lighted,) let a Psyche or Cheval glass be also there. Likewise, a
hand-mirror on each toilet to enable the ladies to see the back of their
heads; with an ample supply of pins, combs, brushes, hair pins, &c.; and
a work-box containing needles, thread, thimble, and scissors, to repair
accidents to articles of dress. Let there be bottles of fine eau de
cologne, and camphor and hartshorn, in case of faintings. Among the
furniture, have a sofa and several foot-stools, for the ladies to sit on
if they wish to change their shoes.

The women attending must take charge of the hoods, cloaks, shawls,
over-shoes, &c.; rolling up together the things that belong to each
lady, and putting each bundle in some place they can easily remember
when wanted at the breaking up of the assembly.

It is now the custom for the lady of the house (and those of her own
family,) to be dressed rather plainly, showing no desire to eclipse any
of her guests, on this her own night. But her attire, though simple,
should be handsome, becoming, and in good taste. Her business is,
without any bustle or apparent officiousness, quietly and almost
imperceptibly to try and render the evening as pleasant as possible to
all her guests; introducing those who, though not yet acquainted, ought
to be; and finding seats for ladies who are not young enough to continue
standing.

The custom that formerly prevailed in the absurd days of crowds and
jams, when dense masses were squeezed into small apartments, of removing
every seat and every piece of furniture from the room, is now obsolete.
A hard squeeze is no longer a high boast. Genteel people no longer go to
parties on the stair-case, or in the passages. The ladies are not now so
compressed that nothing of them is seen but their heads; the sleeves,
skirts, &c., undergoing a continual demolition down below. We knew of a
lady, who, at a late hour, went to a crowded party in a real blonde
dress, which was rubbed entirely off her before she reached the centre
of the room, and it was hanging about her satin skirt in shreds, like
transparent rags dissolving into "air--thin air!" For this blonde she
had given two hundred dollars; and she was obliged to go home and
exchange its tatters for a costume that was likely to last out the
evening.

In houses where space is not abundant, it is now customary to have
several _moderate_ parties in the course of the season, instead of
inviting all your "dear five hundred friends" on the self-same night.

When the hour of assembling is designated in the notes of invitation,
(as it always should be,) the guests, of course, will take care to
arrive as nearly as possible about that hour. At large parties, tea is
usually omitted--it being supposed that every one has already taken that
beverage at home, previous to commencing the business of the toilette.
Many truly hospitable ladies still continue the custom, thinking that it
makes a pleasant beginning to the evening, and exhilarates the ladies
after the fatigue of dressing and arriving. So it does. For a large
company, a table with tea, coffee, and cakes, may be set in the
ladies-room, women being in attendance to supply the guests with those
refreshments before they go down. Pitchers of ice-water and glasses
should also be kept in this room.

If there is no tea, the refreshments begin with lemonade, macaroons,
kisses, &c., sent round soon after the majority of the company has come.
If there _is_ tea, ice-water should be presented after it, to all;
otherwise, there will be much inconvenience by numerous ladies
dispatching the servants, separately, to bring them some.

After a little time allotted to conversation, music is generally
introduced by one of the ladies of the family, if she plays well;
otherwise, she invites a competent friend to commence. A lady who can do
nothing "without her notes," or who cannot read music, and play at
sight, is scarcely enough of a musician to perform in a large
company--for this incapacity is an evidence that she has not a good ear,
or rather a good memory for melody--or that her musical talent wants
more cultivation. A large party is no time or place for practising, or
for risking _attempts_ at new things, or for vainly trying to remember
old ones.

Some young ladies rarely sit down to a piano in any house but their own,
without complaining that the instrument is out of tune. "It is a way
they have." We have known a fair amateur to whom this complaint was
habitual, and never omitted; even when we knew that, to provide against
it, the piano had really been tuned that very day.

The tuning of a harp immediately before playing is sometimes a very
tedious business. Would it not be well for the harpist to come a little
earlier than the rest, and tune it herself previous to their arrival?
And let her deem _that_ tuning sufficient for a while, and not repeat
the operation more than once again in the course of the evening,
especially in the midst of her first piece. However delicate may be her
own ear, or exquisitely fastidious her own taste, she may be assured
that few of her audience would detect any deficiency, if she only went
quietly on, and did not herself imply that deficiency.

Unless a gentleman is himself familiar with the air, let him not, on
"mounting guard beside the piano," volunteer to turn over the pages for
the lady who is playing. He will certainly turn them over too soon or
too late, and therefore annoy and confuse her. Still worse, let him not
attempt to accompany her with his voice, unless he is an excellent
musician, or accustomed to singing with her.

For the hearers to crowd closely round the instrument, is smothering to
the vocalist. Let them keep at a proper distance, and she will sing the
better, and they will hear the better. It is so rude to talk during a
song, that it is never done in company; but a little low conversation is
sometimes tolerated in the adjoining room, during the performance of one
of those interminable pieces of instrumental music, whose chief merit
lies in its difficulty, and which (at least to the ears of the
uninitiated,) is rather a bore than a pleasure. We have read a French
novel, in which the only child of a farmer has just come home from a
provincial boarding-school, and the seigneur, or lord of the manor, has
volunteered a visit to these his respected tenants. The mother, amidst
all the bustle of preparing a great dinner for the occasion, comes in to
remind Annette that if the seigneur should ask her to play for him, she
is to curtsey very low, and thank him for the honour. "And then,
Annette," adds the good old dame, "be sure to play that tune which your
father and I hate so much!"

By the bye, it is very old fashioned to return thanks to a lady for her
singing, or to tell her she is very kind to oblige the company so often.
If she is conscious of really singing well, and sees that she delights
her hearers, she will not feel sensible of fatigue--at least till the
agreeable excitement of conscious success is over.

It is ill-mannered, when a lady has just finished a song, for
another lady to exclaim in her hearing--"Mary Jones sings that
delightfully!"--or--"How charmingly Susan Smith gives us that
ballad!" Let the glories of Mary Jones and Susan Smith rest, for
that evening, within the limits of their own circle.

Do not ask any lady for a song that has already been sung on this very
evening by another person.

People who have no idea of music sometimes make strange blunders in
their requests. We know of a female who, at a large party, hearing a
young lady accompany her voice on the national instrument of Spain,
became very urgent to have the Battle of Prague performed on the guitar.

It is sometimes fashionable, when the company is not too large for what
is called "a sitting party," to vary the amusements of the evening by
introducing some of the numerous plays or games which are always the
delight of fine children, and which, by way of variety, frequently
afford much diversion to adults. It is not necessary that all these
plays should become "a keen encounter of the wits," or that all the
players should be persons of talent. But it is certainly desirable that
the majority of the company should have some tact, and some quickness of
parts; that they should have read some books, and mixed somewhat with
the world--otherwise, they will not be clever even at playing plays.
Those who are incapable of understanding, or entering into the spirit of
a play, would do well to excuse themselves from joining in it, and
prefer sitting by as spectators. Many young ladies can play nothing
beyond "How do you like it?" and are not great at that--saying, when the
question is put to them--"Me! I am sure I don't know how I like
it--can't you pass me by?" You may as well take her at her word, pass
her by, and proceed on to her next neighbour; for if she _does_ concoct
an answer, it will probably, if the word is "_brush_" be liked "to sweep
the hearth with;" or if "_Hat_" is the word, it will be liked "_of
Beaver_"--or something equally palpable.

Such plays as _The Lawyer_, and _The Secret Word_, are very entertaining
in good hands, but complete failures when attempted by the dull or
illiterate. The amusing game of Proverbs had best be given up for that
evening, if, on trial, it is found that few of the ladies have any
knowledge of those true, though homely aphorisms, that have been aptly
called "the concentrated wisdom of nations."

We know a very ingenious gentleman who, in playing the Secret Word,
contrives to introduce that word in some very short and very humorous
anecdote.

A family, on one side of European origin, made a visit to the
transatlantic continent, where they found, still living in a certain
great city, a relative connected with an ancient branch of nobility.
This rendered them more genteel than ever--and when, covered with glory,
they returned to this poor republic of ours, the names of nobles, and
even of princes, with whom they had associated, were "familiar in their
mouths as household words." At a party where these personages were so
engaged in talking, that they forgot to keep the run of the plays; a new
game was commenced by a young gentleman slipping out of the room, and
then returning with a very lugubrious visage, and announcing, in a
melancholy tone, the death of a certain monarch, whom all the company
were immediately to unite in lamenting loudly, on pain of paying
forfeits unless they steadily persisted in their dismal faces. On the
sad intelligence being proclaimed--"The king of Bohemia is dead!"--one
of our travelled ladies mistaking it for a solemn truth, turned to her
daughter with--"Ah! Caroline! did you hear that? The dear good king of
Bohemia, who was so kind to us whenever we attended his court!" "Oh!
mamma!" replied Caroline, putting her handkerchief to her eyes--"the
news is really heart-breaking. He paid us so much attention all the time
we were in ----, in his dominions. It will be long before we cease
grieving for the king of Bohemia."

The gentleman who brought this deplorable news also had recourse to
_his_ handkerchief, and slipped out into the hall to indulge his mirth;
and several others slipped out after him for the same purpose. No one,
however, undeceived these ladies, and for several days at their morning
calls they continued to mourn for the king of Bohemia.

Conundrums[18] afford infinite diversion at a small party, provided the
company, like Billy Black's cat, "almost always gives up." Long guessing
occupies too much time; a commodity of which we Americans seldom have
any to spare.

Early in the Mexican war, a premium was awarded in Philadelphia for a
very clever conundrum, alluding to a certain "Bold Dragoon" at Palo
Alto. "In what manner did Captain May cheat the Mexicans?" "He charged
them with a troop of horse which they never got."

Our confectioners, in making up the _bon bons_ called "_secrets_,"
instead of enfolding with the sugar-plumb a printed slip containing a
contemptible distich, would do well to have good conundrums printed,
(with the answer,) and enclosed in the ornamented papers. They would
certainly be more popular than the old-fashioned mottoes--such, for
instance, as

    "My heart, like a candle of four to the pound,
    Consumes all the day, and no comfort is found."

Yet the above is one of the least bad. Most of these mottoes are so flat
as to be not even ridiculous.

At a dancing party, the ladies of the house decline joining in it, out
of politeness to their guests, till towards the latter part of the
evening, when the company begins to thin off, and the dancers are
fatigued.

We admire a charming girl, who, in her own house, being asked to dance
by an agreeable man, has the self-denial to say to him--"Being at home,
and desirous that my friends shall share as much as possible in the
enjoyments of the evening, I would rather refrain from dancing myself.
Let me present you to Miss Lindley, or to Miss Darwood; you will find
either of these young ladies a delightful partner."

These amiable refusals we have heard from our amiable and unselfish
young friends, and such, we hope, are heard often in what is _truly_
"the best society."

Ladies who are strangers in the place, are, by courtesy, entitled to
particular attention from those who know them.

We have sometimes seen, at a private ball, the least attractive woman
dancing every set, (though acquitting herself very ill,) while handsome
and agreeable ladies were sitting still. The mystery was solved on
finding that the lady of the house carried her ultra benevolence so very
far, as to make a business of procuring partners all the time for this
unlovely and unprepossessing female, lest she should feel neglected. Now
a certain portion of this officiousness is highly praiseworthy, but too
much of it is a great annoyance to the victimized gentlemen--especially
to those who, as a backwoodsman would say, are certainly "some
pumpkins."

Even the most humane man, whatever may be the kindness of his heart,
would rather not exhibit himself on the floor with a partner _ni jeune
ni jolie_, who is ill-dressed, looks badly, moves ungracefully, can
neither keep time to the music nor understand the figure, and in fact
has "no dancing in her soul." If, with all the rest, she is dull and
stupid, it is cruel for any kind friend to inflict her on a gentleman
as a partner. Yet such things we have seen.

On one occasion we threw away a great deal of good pity on a youth, whom
we thought had been inveigled into quadrilling with a lady who made the
worst figure we ever saw in a ball-room. We afterwards learned that he
had actually solicited the introduction; and we saw that he devoted
himself to her all the remainder of the evening. She was a rich heiress.

Self-knowledge is a rare acquirement. But when a lady _does_ suspect
herself to be deficient in all the essential qualifications of a
ball-room, she should give up dancing entirely, and be magnanimous
enough always to excuse herself positively, when asked to dance;
especially if verging on "a certain age." Let all "trippings on the
light fantastic toe" be left to the young and gay.

A deformed woman dancing is "a sorry sight." She should never consent to
any such exhibition of her unhappy figure. She will only be asked out of
mere compassion, or from some interested and unworthy motive. We are
asked--"Why should not such a lady dance, if it gives her pleasure?" We
answer--"It should _not_ give her pleasure."

When a lady is so unfortunate as to have a crooked, or misshapen person,
it is well for her to conceal it as much as possible, by wearing a
shawl, a large cape, a mantilla, a long sacque, (not a polka jacket;)
and on no account a tight-bodied pelisse; or still worse, a
spencer--than which last, nothing is more trying to the form of the
waist, except a riding-habit.

We saw Frederika Bremer at an evening assemblage, and she was so
judiciously attired, that her personal defects did not prevent her from
looking really well. Over a rich black satin dress, she wore a long
loose sacque of black lace, lined with grey silk. From beneath the short
sleeves of her sacque, came down long wide sleeves of white lace,
confined with bracelets round her fair and delicate little hands. Her
throat was covered closely with a handsome collar of French embroidered
muslin, and her beautiful and becoming cap was of white lace, white
flowers, and white satin ribbon--her light hair being simply parted on
her broad and intellectual forehead. With her lively blue eyes, and the
bright and pleasant expression of her countenance, no one seemed to
notice the faults of her nose, mouth, and complexion--and those of her
figure were so well concealed as to be scarcely apparent. And then her
lady-like ease, and the total absence of all affectation, rendered her
graceful and prepossessing. True it is, that with a good heart and a
good mind no woman can be ugly; at least, they soon cease to be so
considered, even if nature has been unkind to them in feature, figure,
and complexion. An intelligent eye, and a good humoured mouth, are
excellent substitutes for the want of regular beauty. Physiognomists say
that the eye denotes the mind, and the mouth indicates the heart.

Now as a deformed lady may render herself very agreeable as a good
conversationist, we repeat that she has no occasion to exhibit the
defects of her person by treading the mazes of a cotillion, or above
all, in going down a country dance, should those "never-ending, still
beginning" performances come again into fashion. Young men say that an
ugly, misshapen female, who waltzes, or joins in a polka, or redowa, or
mazurka, deserves the penitentiary.

We deprecate the practice of keeping the small children of the family up
all the evening, running and scampering in every one's way, or sleeping
about on the chairs and sofas, and crying when wakened up to be carried
to bed. Would it not be much better to have them sent to bed at their
usual time? We knew two well-trained little boys, who submitted
obediently to go to bed at their customary hour, on the night of their
mother's party, of which they had seen nothing but the decorations of
the parlours. They told their parents next morning, that still they had
a great deal of pleasure, for after the carriages began to arrive, they
had lain awake and "heard every ring."

At a large party, or at a wedding, there is generally a supper table;
lemonade and cakes having been sent round during the evening. The host
and hostess should see that _all_ the ladies are conducted thither, and
that none are neglected, particularly those that are timid, and stand
back. It is the business of the host to attend to those himself, or to
send the waiters to them.

If the party is so large that all the ladies cannot go to the table at
once, let the matrons be conducted thither first, and the young ladies
afterwards. If there is a crowd, it is not unusual to have a cord (a
handsome one, of course,) stretched across the door of the supper-room,
and guarded by a servant, who explains that no more are to pass till
after that cord is taken down. Meanwhile, the younger part of the
company amuse themselves in the adjacent rooms. No lady should take the
liberty of meddling with the flowers that ornament the table, or of
secreting "good things" to carry home to her children.

Apropos to flowers.--The stiff, hard bouquets are now obsolete, where
the flowers (stripped of their natural green leaves,) were tied _en
masse_ on a wooden skewer, against a flat back-ground of cedar sprays.
The more elegant arrangement is revived of arranging them in a full
round cluster, with a fair portion of their real leaves; the largest and
finest flowers in the centre, (large white ones particularly); those of
middle size next; and the light, long, and branchy sprays and tendrils
at the extremities, the smallest near the bottom of the bouquet, which
is not so large and massy as formerly, but more graceful and select. The
bouquet may be carried on the young lady's arm, suspended to a long and
handsome white ribbon tied in a bow--a _coloured_ ribbon will disturb
the effect of the flowers. There should be nothing to interfere with
their various and beautiful tints.

At a ball, let no _coloured_ chalks or crayons be used for the floor.
They will rub off on the white shoes of the ladies, and spoil them.

When, instead of _setting_ a supper-table, refreshments are handed round
to the ladies, the fashion has long since gone by of a gentleman walking
beside each waiter, and "assisting the ladies." It is now found that if
the articles are properly arranged, and of the proper sort, the ladies
can much more conveniently help themselves, and with less risk of
staining or greasing their dresses. Unless the gentleman was "a
thorough-going party-man," and stereotyped as such, he often committed
rather vexatious blunders, particularly if he was not _au-courant_ to
the new improvements, and accustomed to being "at good men's feasts;" or
rather, at _women's good feasts_. One evening at a party, we saw an
"ingenuous youth," whose experience in that line must have been rather
limited, officiously undertake the portioning out to the ladies of a
composition hitherto quite new to himself. This was "a trifle," being
the contents of a very large glass bowl, filled with macaroons, &c.,
dissolved in wine, &c., with profuse layers of custard, sweetmeats, &c.,
and covered in at the top with a dome of whipt cream heaped high and
thick over the whole. The pea-green youth assisted the ladies to nothing
but saucers of froth from the top, thinking that was the right way. At
last, the mulatto man, whose superior tact must have been all this time
in a state of suffering, explained to the novice in trifles, that a
portion of all the various contents of the glass bowl should be allotted
to each saucer. "That!" said the surprised doer of honours, "I thought
all that was only the grounds!" The coloured man relieved him by taking
the silver server round a second time to all the ladies, who had
hitherto missed the sediment of the syllabub.

At a summer evening party, the refreshments are of a much lighter
description than at a winter entertainment; consisting chiefly of
ice-creams, water-ices, fresh fruit, lady-cake, and almond sponge-cake.
Also strawberry or raspberry charlottes, which are made by arranging in
glass bowls slices of cake cut in even and regular forms, and spread
thickly over with the fruit mashed to a jam with white sugar--the bowls
being heaped with whipt cream.

The dresses of the ladies are of clear muslin, or some other light
material, and without any elaborate trimming. The hair is simply
arranged--curls being inconvenient in warm weather; and the only head
ornaments are ribbons, or _real_ flowers.

At summer evening-parties the veranda is always put into requisition,
being cooler than any part of the house.

At summer dinner-parties, let the dessert be served in another and
cooler apartment; the company quitting the dining-room as soon as they
have done with the meats, &c. The beauties of the dessert appear to
greater advantage, when seen all at one view on a fresh table.

We will introduce a minute account of a very fashionable English
dinner-party, obtained from a friend who was one of the guests. It may
afford some hints for the routine of an elegant entertainment, _à
l'Anglais_, in our own country.

The guests were twenty-four in number, and they began to assemble at
half past seven, punctually. They were received in the library, where
the host and hostess were standing ready to receive them, introducing
those who were strangers to each other. When all had arrived, the butler
entered, and going up to the lady of the house, told her in a low voice
that "dinner was served." The hostess then arranged those that were not
previously acquainted, and the gentlemen conducted the ladies to the
dining-room; the principal stranger taking the mistress of the house,
and the master giving his arm to the chief of the female guests. In
England, these arrangements are made according to the rank of the
ladies--that of the gentlemen is not considered. A duchess takes
precedence of a marchioness, a viscountess of a countess, a baroness of
a baron_et_'s lady, &c.,--for a baron is above a baronet. Going into the
dining-room, the company passed by the butler and eight footmen, all of
whom were stationed in two rows. The butler was dressed entirely in
black--the footmen in their livery. According to a new fashion, they may
now wear long gaiters. White kid gloves are indispensable to the
footmen.

The table was set for twenty-six--and standing on it were elegant gilt
candelabras. _All_ the lights were wax candles. Chandeliers were
suspended from the ceiling. In the middle of the table was a magnificent
plateau, or centre ornament of gold; flowers surmounted the summit; and
the circular stages below were covered with confectionery elegantly
arranged. On each side of the plateau, and above and below, were tall
china fruit-baskets. In the centre of each basket were immense
pine-apples of hot-house growth, with their fresh green leaves. Below
the pine-apples were large bunches of purple and white hot-house
grapes, beautifully disposed, with leaves and tendrils hanging over the
sides of the baskets. Down each side of the whole long table, were
placed large, round, saucer-shaped fruit-dishes, heaped up with peaches,
nectarines, pears, plumbs, ripe gooseberries, cherries, currants,
strawberries, &c. All the fruits not in season were supplied from
hot-houses. And alternating with the fruit were all the _entremets_ in
covered dishes, placed on long slips of damask the whole length of the
table. All the plate was superb. The dinner-set was of French china,
gilt, and painted with roses. At every plate was a caraffe of water,
with a tumbler turned down over it, and several wine-glasses. The
napkins were large. The side-board held only the show-silver and the
wine. The side-tables were covered with elegant damask cloths. On these
were ranged, laid along in numerous rows, the knives, forks, and spoons
to be used at dinner. The dessert-spoons were in the form of hollow
leaves, the stems being the handles. They were beautifully engraved in
tasteful patterns. The fruit-knives had silver blades and pearl handles.
There were two soups (white and brown,) standing on a side-table. Each
servant handed the things in his white kid gloves, and with a damask
napkin under his thumb. They offered (mentioning its name in a low
voice,) a plate of each soup to each guest. After the soup, Hock and
Moselle wine were offered to each guest, that they might choose either.
A dish of fish was then placed at each end of the table--one was salmon,
the other turbot. These dishes were immediately taken off to be helped
by the servants, both sorts of fish being offered to each person. Then
the appropriate sauce for the fish--also cucumbers to eat with the
salmon. No castors were on the large table, but they were handed round
by the servants. Directly after the fish came the _entremets_, or French
dishes. The wine following the fish was Madeira and Sherry.

Afterwards, a saddle or haunch of Welsh mutton was placed at the
master's end of the table, and at the lady's end a boiled turkey. These
dishes being removed to the side-tables, very thin slices of each were
handed round. The poultry was not dissected--nothing being helped but
the breast. Ham and tongue was then supplied to those who took poultry;
and currant-jelly to the eaters of mutton. Next came the vegetables,
handed round on dishes divided into four compartments, each division
containing a different sort of vegetable.

Next, two dishes of game were put on--one before the master of the
house, and the other before the mistress. The game (which was perfectly
well-done,) was helped by them, and sent round with the appropriate
sauce. Then, placed along the table, were the sweet things--charlottes,
jellies, frozen fruit, &c. A lobster salad, dressed and cut up large,
was put on with the sweets. On a side-table were stilton and cream
cheese, to be eaten with the salad. After this, port wine--the champagne
being early in the dinner. Next the sweets were handed round. With the
sweets were frozen fruits--fruits cut up, and frozen with
isinglass-jelly, (red, in moulds.)

Next, a dessert plate was given to each guest, and on it a ground glass
plate, about the size of a saucer. Between these plates was a
crochet-worked white doyly, of the size of the under-plate; the
crochet-work done with thread, so as to resemble lace. These doylies
were laid under the ground-glass plate, to deaden the noise of their
collision. Then was brought from the side-table a ground-glass plate of
ice-cream, or water-ice, which you took in exchange for that before you.
The water-ice was frozen in moulds, in the form of fruit, and suitably
coloured. The baskets containing the fruit were then removed to the
side-tables, where the servants had silver scissors, with which they
clipped off small bunches of the grapes, and the green tops of the
pine-apples, and a portion of the flesh of the fruit. The middle part
was then pared and sliced. On each dessert-plate was placed a slice of
pine-apple, and small bunches of white and blue grapes. After the grapes
and pine-apples were thus handed round, the dishes of the other fruits
were then offered successively to every guest. After the ground-glass
and doylies, there was no farther change of plates.

After sitting a while over the fruit, the lady of the house gives the
signal, by looking and bowing to the ladies on each side, and the ladies
at this signal prepare to retire. The gentlemen all rise, and remain
standing while the ladies depart--the master of the house holding the
door open. The servants then all retire, except the butler, who remains
to wait on the gentlemen, while they linger awhile (not more than a
quarter of an hour,) over the fruit and wine.


It may be well to caution our young friends against certain bad
practices, easily contracted, but sometimes difficult to relinquish. The
following are things not to be done:--Biting your nails. Slipping a ring
up and down your finger. Sitting cross-kneed, and, jogging your feet.
Drumming on the table with your knuckles; or, still worse, tinking on a
piano with _your fore-finger only_. Humming a tune before strangers.
Singing as you go up and down stairs. Putting your arm round the neck of
another young girl, or promenading the room with arms encircling waists.
Holding the hand of a friend all the time she sits beside you; or
kissing and fondling her before company. Sitting too closely.

Slapping a gentleman with your handkerchief, or tapping him with your
fan. Allowing him to take a ring off your finger, to look at it.
Permitting him to unclasp your bracelet, or, still worse, to inspect
your brooch. When these ornaments are to be shown to another person,
always take them off for the purpose. Pulling at your own ringlets, or
your own ear-rings--or fingering your neck ribbon. Suffering a
gentleman to touch your curls. Reading with a gentleman off the same
book or newspaper. Looking over the shoulder of any person who is
reading or writing. Taking up a _written_ paper from the table, and
examining it.

To listen at door-cracks, and peep through key-holes, is vulgar and
contemptible. So it is to ask children questions concerning their
parents, though such things are still done.

If you mean that you were angry, do not say you were "mad."--"It made me
so mad"--"I was quite mad at her," are phrases not to be used by people
considering themselves genteel. Anger and madness are not the same, or
should not be; though it is true that ungoverned rage, is, sometimes,
carried so far as to seem like insanity.

Enter into no freaks of fashion that are silly, unmeaning, and
unlady-like; even if they _have_ been introduced by a belle, and
followed by other belles. Commit no absurdity because a public singer or
dancer has done so in her ignorance of good behaviour. During the Jenny
Lind fever, there were young ladies who affected to skuttle into a
drawing-room all of a sudden, somewhat as the fair Swede came skuttling
in upon the concert stage, because in reality she knew not how to make
her entrance gracefully. Other demoiselles twined and waved about, with
body, head, and eyes, never a moment quiet. This squirming (as it was
called) originated in a very bad imitation of Fanny Elssler's dancing
motions. At one time there were girls at parties, who stood on one
foot, and with the other kicked up their dresses behind, while talking
to gentlemen. This fashion began with a celebrated beauty who "dared do
any thing." Luckily, these "whims and oddities" are always of short
duration, and are never adopted by young ladies of good taste and
refinement.

Do not nod your head, or beat time with fan or foot while listening to
music.

Never at a party consent to accompany another lady in a duet, unless you
are accustomed to singing with her. Still worse--do not volunteer to
"assist" her in a song that is not a duet. Each voice will interrupt and
spoil the other. A lady who sings by ear only, cannot accompany one that
sings by note.

One of the most horrible sounds imaginable is that produced by several
fine voices all singing different songs. This cats' concert (as
school-girls call it) results in a shocking and yet ludicrous discord,
equally frightful and laughable. And yet all the performers are singing
individually well. Try it.

Raising a window-sash, in cold weather, without first ascertaining if
the rest of the company are, like yourself, too warm. Leaving the
parlour door open in winter--a perpetual occurrence at hotels and
boarding-houses.

Talking so loudly that you can be heard all over the room. Or so low
that you cannot be heard at all, even by those who are conversing with
you. This last fault is the worst. To talk with one who has a habit of
muttering unintelligibly, is like trying to read a letter illegibly
written.

Using too often the word "madam" or "ma'am," which in fact, is now
nearly obsolete in familiar conversation. In the old French tragedies
the lovers addressed their mistresses as "madam." But then the stage
Alexander wore a powdered wig, and a laced coat, knee-breeches, and a
long-skirted waistcoat; and Roxana figured in a hoop-petticoat, a
brocade gown, a flowered apron, and a towering gauze cap. The frequent
use of "sir" is also out of fashion. "Yes, ma'am," "No, ma'am," "Yes,
sir," "No, sir," no longer sounds well, except from children to their
elders. If you have not distinctly heard what another lady has just said
to you, do not denote it by saying, "Ma'am?" but remark to her, "Excuse
me, I did not exactly hear you!"

Never, in a public parlour, place yourself in a position where you can
secretly hear conversation that is not intended for you--for instance in
a corner behind a pillar. If you hear yourself talked of, it is mean to
stay and listen. It is a true adage that "Listeners seldom hear any good
of themselves."

However smart and witty you may be considered, do not exercise your wit
in rallying and bantering your friends. If you do so, their friendship
will soon be worn out, or converted into positive enmity. A jest that
carries a sting with it can never give a pleasant sensation to the
object. The bite of a musquito is a very little thing, but it leaves
pain and inflammation behind it, and the more it is rubbed the longer it
rankles in the blood. No one likes to have their foibles or mishaps
turned into ridicule--before other persons especially. And few can
cordially join in a laugh that is raised against themselves.

The slightest jest on the personal defects of those you are conversing
with, is an enormity of rudeness and vulgarity. It is, in fact, a sneer
at the Creator that made them so. No human creature is accountable for
being too small, or too large; for an ill-formed figure, or for
ill-shaped limbs; for irregular features, or a bad complexion.

Still worse, to rally any person (especially a woman) on her age, or to
ask indirect questions with a view of discovering what her age really
is. If we continue to live, we must continue to grow old. We must either
advance in age, or we must die. Where then is the shame of surviving our
youth? And when youth departs, beauty goes along with it. At least as
much beauty as depends on complexion, hair, and teeth. In arriving at
middle age, (or a little beyond it,) a lady must compound for the loss
of either face or figure. About that period she generally becomes
thinner, or fatter. If thin, her features shrink, and her skin shrivels
and fades; even though she retains a slender and perhaps a girlish form.
If she grows fat, her skin may continue smooth, and her complexion fine,
and her neck and arms may be rounder and handsomer than in girlhood; but
then symmetry of shape will cease--and she must reconcile herself to the
change as best she can. But a woman with a good mind, a good heart, and
a good temper, can never at any age grow ugly--for an intelligent and
pleasant expression is in itself beauty, and the best sort of beauty.

Sad indeed is the condition of women in the decline of life when "No
lights of age adorn them." When, having neglected in the spring and
summer to lay up any stores for the winter that is sure to come, they
find themselves left in the season of desolation with nothing to fall
back upon--no pleasant recollections of the acquisition of knowledge or
the performance of good deeds, and nothing to talk about but the idle
gossip of the day--striving painfully to look younger than they really
are; still haunting balls and parties, and enduring all the discomforts
of crowded watering-places, long after all pleasure in such scenes must
have passed away. But then they must linger in public because they are
miserable at home, having no resources within themselves, and few
enduring friends to enliven them with their society.

The woman that knows how to grow old gracefully, will adapt her dress to
her figure and her age, and wear colours that suit her present
complexion. If her neck and arms are thin, she will not expose them
under any circumstances. If her hair is grey, she will not decorate it
with flowers and flimsy ribbons. If her cheeks are hollow, she will not
make her face look still longer and thinner by shadowing it with long
ringlets; and setting her head-dress far back--but she will give it as
much softness as she can, by a light cap-border tied under her chin. She
will not squeeze herself out of all human shape by affecting a long
tight _corsage_; and she will wear no dresses glaring with huge flowers,
or loaded with gaudy trimmings. She will allude to her age as a thing of
course; she will speak without hesitation of former times, though the
recollection proves her to be really old. She will be kind and indulgent
to the young; and the young will respect and love her, and gladly
assemble near her chair, and be amused and unconsciously instructed. As
long as she lives and retains her faculties she will endeavour to
improve, and to become still a wiser and a better woman; never excusing
herself by indolently and obstinately averring that "she is too old to
learn," or that she cannot give up her old-fashioned habits. If she
finds that those habits are unwarrantable, or that they are annoying to
her friends, she ought to relinquish them. No one with a mind
unimpaired, and a heart still fresh, is too old to learn.

This book is addressed chiefly to the young; but we shall be much
gratified by finding that even old ladies have found in it some
advantageous suggestions on points that had hitherto escaped their
notice.


